HOME RULE AMENDMENT

ARTICLE VIII, SECTION 11 FLORIDA CONSTITUTION 1885 Dade County, home rule charter. (1)The electors of Dade County, Florida, are granted power to adopt, revise, and amend from time to time a home rule charter of government for Dade County, Florida, under which the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County shall be the governing body. This charter: (a)Shall fix the boundaries of each county commission district, provide a method for changing them from time to time, and fix the number, terms and compensation of the commissioners, and their method of election. (b)May grant full power and authority to the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County to pass ordinances relating to the affairs, property and government of Dade County and provide suitable penalties for the violation thereof; to levy and collect such taxes as may be authorized by general law and no other taxes, and do everything necessary to carry on a central metropolitan government in Dade County. (c)May change the boundaries of, merge, consolidate, and abolish and may provide a method for changing the boundaries of, merging, consolidating and abolishing from time to time all municipal corporations, county or district governments, special taxing districts, authorities, boards, or other governmental units whose jurisdiction lies wholly within Dade County, whether such governmental units are created by the Constitution or the Legislature or otherwise, except the Dade County Board of County Commissioners as it may be provided for from time to time by this home rule charter and the Board of Public Instruction of Dade County. (d)May provide a method by which any and all of the functions or powers of any municipal corporation or other governmental unit in Dade County may be transferred to the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County. (e)May provide a method for establishing new municipal corporations, special taxing districts, and other governmental units in Dade County from time to time and provide for their government and prescribe their jurisdiction and powers. (f)May abolish and may provide a method for abolishing from time to time all offices provided for by Article VIII, Section 6, of the Constitution or by the Legislature, except the Superintendent of Public Instruction and may provide for the consolidation and transfer of the functions of such offices, provided, however, that there shall be no power to abolish or impair the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court or to abolish any other court provided for by this Constitution or by general law, or the judges or clerks thereof although such charter may create new courts and judges and clerks thereof with jurisdiction to try all offenses against ordinances passed by the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County and none of the other courts provided for by this Constitution or by general law shall have original jurisdiction to try such offenses, although the charter may confer appellate jurisdiction on such courts, and provided further that if said home rule charter shall abolish any county office or offices as authorized herein, that said charter shall contain adequate provision for the carrying on of all functions of said office or offices as are now or may hereafter be prescribed by general law. (g)Shall provide a method by which each municipal corporation in Dade County shall have the power to make, amend or repeal its own charter. Upon adoption of this home rule charter by the electors this method shall be exclusive and the Legislature shall have no power to amend or repeal the charter of any municipal corporation in Dade County. (h)May change the name of Dade County.(i)Shall provide a method for the recall of any commissioner and a method for initiative and referendum, including the initiation of and referendum on ordinances and the amendment or revision of the home rule charter, provided, however, that the power of the Governor and Senate relating to the suspension and removal of officers provided for in this Constitution shall not be impaired, but shall extend to all officers provided for in said home rule charter. (2)Provision shall be made for the protection of the creditors of any governmental unit which is merged, consolidated, or abolished or whose boundaries are changed or functions or powers transferred. (3)This home rule charter shall be prepared by a Metropolitan Charter Board created by the Legislature and shall be presented to the electors of Dade County for ratification or rejection in the manner provided by the Legislature. Until a home rule charter is adopted the Legislature may from time to time create additional Charter Boards to prepare charters to be presented to the electors of Dade County for ratification or rejection in the manner provided by the Legislature. Such charter, once adopted by the electors, may be amended only by the electors of Dade County and this charter shall provide a method for submitting future charter revisions and amendments to the electors of Dade County. (4)The County Commission shall continue to receive its pro rata share of all revenues payable by the state from whatever source to the several counties and the State of Florida shall pay to the Commission all revenues which would have been paid to any municipality in Dade County which may be abolished by or in the method provided by this home rule charter; provided, however, the Commission shall reimburse the comptroller of Florida for the expense incurred, if any, in the keeping of separate records to determine the amounts of money which would have been payable to any such municipality. (5)Nothing in this section shall limit or restrict the power of the Legislature to enact general laws which shall relate to Dade County and any other one or more counties in the State of Florida or to any municipality in Dade County and any other one or more municipalities of the State of Florida, and the home rule charter provided for herein shall not conflict with any provision of this Constitution nor of any applicable general laws now applying to Dade County and any other one or more counties of the State of Florida except as expressly authorized in this section nor shall any ordinance enacted in pursuance to said home rule charter conflict with this Constitution or any such applicable general law except as expressly authorized herein, nor shall the charter of any municipality in Dade County conflict with this Constitution or any such applicable general law except as expressly authorized herein, provided however that said charter and said ordinances enacted in pursuance thereof may conflict with, modify or nullify any existing local, special or general law applicable only to Dade County. (6)Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or restrict the power of the Legislature to enact general laws which shall relate to Dade County and any other one or more counties of the State of Florida or to any municipality in Dade County and any other one or more municipalities of the State of Florida relating to county or municipal affairs and all such general laws shall apply to Dade County and to all municipalities therein to the same extent as if this section had not been adopted and such general laws shall supersede any part or portion of the home rule charter provided for herein in conflict therewith and shall supersede any provision of any ordinance enacted pursuant to said charter and in conflict therewith, and shall supersede any provision of any charter of any municipality in Dade County in conflict therewith. (7)Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or restrict the power and jurisdiction of the Railroad and Public Utilities Commission or of any other state agency, bureau or commission now or hereafter provided for in this Constitution or by general law and said state agencies, bureaus and commissions shall have the same powers in Dade County as shall be conferred upon them in regard to other counties. (8)If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or provision of this section is held invalid as violative of the provisions of Section 1, Article XVII of this Constitution the remainder of this section shall not be affected by such invalidity. (9)It is declared to be the intent of the Legislature and of the electors of the State of Florida to provide by this section home rule for the people of Dade County in local affairs and this section shall be liberally construed to carry out such purpose, and it is further declared to be the intent of the Legislature and of the electors of the State of Florida that the provisions of this Constitution and general laws which shall relate to Dade County and any other one or more counties of the State of Florida or to any municipality in Dade County and any other one or more municipalities of the State of Florida enacted pursuant thereto by the Legislature shall be the supreme law in Dade County, Florida, except as expressly provided herein and this section shall be strictly construed to maintain such supremacy of this Constitution and of the Legislature in the enactment of general laws pursuant to this Constitution. Note: The Florida Constitution of 1968 contains the following language providing that the Home Rule Amendment to the Florida Constitution of 1885 remains in full force and effect: ARTICLE VIII, SECTION 6 FLORIDA CONSTITUTION 1968 Section 6. Schedule to Article VIII (a)This article shall replace all of Article VIII of the Constitution of 1885, as amended, except those sections expressly retained and made a part of this article by reference. * * * (e)CONSOLIDATION AND HOME RULE. Article VIII, Sections 9, 10, 11 and 24, of the Constitution of 1885, as amended, shall remain in full force and effect as to each county affected, as if this article had not been adopted, until that county shall expressly adopt a charter or home rule plan pursuant to this article. All provisions of the Metropolitan Dade County Home Rule Charter, heretofore or hereafter adopted by the electors of Dade County pursuant to Article VIII, Section 11, of the Constitution of 1885, as amended, shall be valid, and any amendments to such charter shall be valid; provided that the said provisions of such charter and the said amendments thereto are authorized under said Article VIII, Section 11, of the Constitution of 1885, as amended. (f)DADE COUNTY; POWERS CONFERRED UPON MUNICIPALITIES. To the extent not inconsistent with the powers of existing municipalities or general law, the Metropolitan Government of Dade County may exercise all the powers conferred now or hereafter by general law upon municipalities.

,MIAMI-DADE COUNTYHOME RULE CHARTER



,PREAMBLE

We, the people of this County, in order to secure for ourselves the benefits and responsibilities of home rule, to create a metropolitan government to serve our present and future needs, and to endow our municipalities with the rights of self determination in their local affairs, do under God adopt this home rule Charter.

,CITIZENS' BILL OF RIGHTS

(A).This government has been created to protect the governed, not the governing. In order to provide the public with full and accurate information, to promote efficient administrative management, to make government more accountable, and to insure to all persons fair and equitable treatment, the following rights are guaranteed: 1. Convenient Access. Every person has the right to transact business with the County and the municipalities with a minimum of personal inconvenience. It shall be the duty of the Mayor and the Commission to provide, within the County's budget limitations, reasonably convenient times and places for registration and voting, for required inspections, and for transacting business with the County. 2. Truth in Government. No County or municipal official or employee shall knowingly furnish false information on any public matter, nor knowingly omit significant facts when giving requested information to members of the public. 3. Public Records. All audits, reports, minutes, documents and other public records of the County and the municipalities and their boards, agencies, departments and authorities shall be open for inspection at reasonable times and places convenient to the public. 4. Minutes and Ordinance Register. The Clerk of the Commission and of each municipal council shall maintain and make available for public inspection an ordinance register separate from the minutes showing the votes of each member on all ordinances and resolutions listed by descriptive title. Written minutes of all meetings and the ordinance register shall be available for public inspection not later than 30 days after the conclusion of the meeting. 5. Right to be Heard. So far as the orderly conduct of public business permits, any interested person has the right to appear before the Commission or any municipal council or any County or municipal agency, board or department for the presentation, adjustment or determination of an issue, request or controversy within the jurisdiction of the governmental entity involved; provided, nothing herein shall prohibit the Commission or any municipal council from referring a matter to a committee of each of their respective bodies to conduct a public hearing, unless prohibited by law. Matters shall be scheduled for the convenience of the public, and the agenda shall be divided into approximate time periods so that the public may know approximately when a matter will be heard. Nothing herein shall prohibit any governmental entity or agency from imposing reasonable time limits for the presentation of a matter. 6. Right to Notice. Persons entitled to notice of a County or municipal hearing shall be timely informed as to the time, place and nature of the hearing and the legal authority pursuant to which the hearing is to be held. Failure by an individual to receive such notice shall not constitute mandatory grounds for cancelling the hearing or rendering invalid any determination made at such hearing. Copies of proposed ordinances or resolutions shall be made available at a reasonable time prior to the hearing, unless the matter involves an emergency ordinance or resolution. 7. No Unreasonable Postponements. No matter once having been placed on a formal agenda by the County or any municipality shall be postponed to another day except for good cause shown in the opinion of the County Commission, the municipal council or other governmental entity or agency conducting such meeting, and then only on condition that any person so requesting is mailed adequate notice of the new date of any postponed meeting. Failure by an individual to receive such notice shall not constitute mandatory grounds for cancelling the hearing or rendering invalid any determination made at such hearing. 8. Right to Public Hearing. Upon a timely request of any interested party a public hearing shall be held by any County or municipal agency, board, department or authority upon any significant policy decision to be issued by it which is not subject to subsequent administrative or legislative review and hearing. This provision shall not apply to the Law Department of the County or of any municipality, nor to any body whose duties and responsibilities are solely advisory. At any zoning or other hearing in which review is exclusively by certiorari, a party or his counsel shall be entitled to present his case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. The decision of any such agency, board, department or authority must be based upon the facts in the record. Procedural rules establishing reasonable time and other limitations may be promulgated and amended from time to time. 9. Notice of Actions and Reasons. Prompt notice shall be given of the denial in whole or in part of a request of an interested person made in connection with any County or municipal administrative decision or proceeding when the decision is reserved at the conclusion of the hearing. The notice shall be accompanied by a statement of the grounds for denial. 10. Mayor's, City Managers' and Attorneys' Reports. The County Mayor and County Attorney and each City Manager and City Attorney shall periodically make a public status report on all major matters pending or concluded within their respective jurisdictions. 11. Budgeting. In addition to any budget required by state statute, the County Mayor shall prepare a budget showing the cost of each program for each budget year. Prior to the County Commission's first public hearing on the proposed budget required by state law, the County Mayor shall make public a budget summary setting forth the proposed cost of each individual program and reflecting all major proposed increases and decreases in funds and personnel for each program, the purposes therefore, the estimated millage cost of each program and the amount of any contingency and carryover funds for each program. 12. Quarterly Budget Comparisons. The County Mayor shall make public a quarterly report showing the actual expenditures during the quarter just ended against one quarter of the proposed annual expenditures set forth in the budget. Such report shall also reflect the same cumulative information for whatever portion of the fiscal year that has elapsed. 13. Adequate Audits. An annual audit of the County and each municipality shall be made by an independent certified public accounting firm in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. A summary of the results, including any deficiencies found, shall be made public. In making such audit, proprietary functions shall be audited separately and adequate depreciation on proprietary facilities shall be accrued so the public may determine the amount of any direct or indirect subsidy. 14. Regional Offices. Regional offices of the County's administrative services shall be maintained at locations in the County for the convenience of the residents. 15. Financial Disclosure. The Commission shall by ordinance make provision for the filing under oath or affirmation by all County and municipal elective officials, candidates for County and municipal elective offices, such employees as may be designated by ordinance, and such other public officials, and outside consultants who receive funds from the County or municipalities, within the County and who may legally be included, of personal financial statements, copies of personal Federal income tax returns, or itemized source of income statements. Provision shall be made for preparing and keeping such reports current from time to time, and for public disclosure. The Commission shall also make provision for the filing annually under oath of a report by fulltime County and municipal employees of all outside employment and amounts received therefrom. The Mayor and any City Manager may require monthly reports from individual employees or groups of employees for good cause. 16. Representation of Public. The Commission shall endeavor to provide representation at all proceedings significantly affecting the County and its residents before State and Federal regulatory bodies. 17. Commission on Ethics and Public Trust. The County shall, by ordinance, establish an independent Commission on Ethics and Public Trust comprised of five members, not appointed by the County Commission, with the authority to review, interpret, render advisory opinions and enforce the county and municipal code of ethics ordinances, conflict of interest ordinances, lobbyist registration and reporting ordinances, ethical campaign practices ordinances, when enacted, and citizens' bill of rights. (B).The foregoing enumeration of citizens' rights vests large and pervasive powers in the citizenry of Dade County. Such power necessarily carries with it responsibility of equal magnitude for the successful operation of government in the County. The orderly, efficient and fair operation of government requires the intelligent participation of individual citizens exercising their rights with dignity and restraint so as to avoid any sweeping acceleration in the cost of government because of the exercise of individual prerogatives, and for individual citizens to grant respect for the dignity of public office. (C).Remedies for Violations. A citizen may bring a cause of action alleging a violation of this Article filed in the Dade County Circuit Court pursuant to its general equity jurisdiction and if successful, shall be entitled to recover costs as fixed by the Court. The Commission on Ethics and Public Trust may also enforce the provisions of this Article and may impose any penalty authorized by County Code not otherwise prohibited by a collective bargaining agreement, for a violation of this Article. Any penalty imposed by the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust pursuant to this subsection may be enforced in the Miami-Dade County Circuit Court. (D).Construction. All provisions of this Article shall be construed to be supplementary to and not in conflict with the general laws of Florida. If any part of this Article shall be declared invalid, it shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions.

,ARTICLE 1. BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

SECTION 1.01. POWERS.SECTION 1.02. RESOLUTIONS AND ORDINANCES.SECTION 1.03. DISTRICTS.SECTION 1.04. COMPOSITION OF THE COMMISSION.SECTION 1.05. FORFEITURE OF OFFICE OF COUNTY ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.SECTION 1.06. SALARY.SECTION 1.07. VACANCIES IN THE OFFICE OF MAYOR OR COUNTY COMMISSIONER.SECTION 1.08. ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION AND COMMISSION COMMITTEES.SECTION 1.01. POWERS.A.The Board of County Commissioners shall be the legislative and the governing body of the county. The County shall have the power to carry on a central metropolitan government. The Board's powers shall include but shall not be restricted to the powers to: 1.Provide and regulate arterial, toll, and other roads, bridges, tunnels, and related facilities; eliminate grade crossings; provide and regulate parking facilities; and develop and enforce master plans for the control of traffic and parking. 2.Provide and operate air, water, rail, and bus terminals, port facilities, and public transportation systems.3.License and regulate taxis, jitneys, limousines for hire, rental cars, and other passenger vehicles for hire operating in the county. 4.Provide central records, training, and communications for fire and police protection; provide traffic control and central crime investigation; provide fire stations, jails, and related facilities; and subject to Section 1.01A(18) provide a uniform system for fire and police protection. 5.Prepare and enforce comprehensive plans for the development of the county.6.Provide hospitals and uniform health and welfare programs.7.Provide parks, preserves, playgrounds, recreation areas, libraries, museums, and other recreational and cultural facilities and programs. 8.Establish housing, slum clearance, urban renewal, conservation, flood and beach erosion control, air pollution control, and drainage programs and cooperate with governmental agencies and private enterprises in the development and operation of these programs. 9.Provide and regulate or permit municipalities to provide and regulate waste and sewage collection and disposal and water supply and conservation programs. 10.Levy and collect taxes and special assessments, borrow and expend money and issue bonds, revenue certificates, and other obligations of indebtedness in such manner, and subject to such limitations, as may be provided by law. 11.By ordinance, establish, merge, and abolish special purpose districts within which may be provided police and fire protection, beach erosion control, recreation facilities, water, streets, sidewalks, street lighting, waste and sewage collection and disposal, drainage, and other essential facilities and services. All county funds for such districts shall be provided by service charges, special assessments, or general tax levies within such districts only. The Board of County Commissioners shall be the governing body of all such districts and when acting as such governing body shall have the same jurisdiction and powers as when acting as the Board; provided, however, that the governing board of the Children's Trust shall not be the Board of County Commissioners, but shall have membership as provided in state law for children's service councils serving home rule charter counties. The Children's Trust shall have the authority to fund improvements to children's health, development and safety; promote parental and community responsibility for children; levy an annual ad valorem tax not to exceed one-half (½) mill to supplement current county expenditures for children services and require voter renewal in 2008. Note: By special election called pursuant to Resolution No. R-534-08, and held on August 26, 2008, the voters renewed The Children's Trust's ability to continue to levy an annual ad valorem tax. 12.Establish, coordinate, and enforce zoning and such business regulations as are necessary for the protection of the public.13.Adopt and enforce uniform building and related technical codes and regulations for both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county; provide for examinations for contractors and all parties engaged in the building trades and for the issuance of certificates of competency and their revocation after hearing. Such certificates shall be recognized and required for the issuance of a license in all municipalities in the county. No municipality shall be entitled to require examinations or any additional certificate of competency or impose any other conditions for the issuance of a municipal license except the payment of the customary fee. The municipality may issue building permits and conduct the necessary inspections in accordance with the uniform codes and charge fees therefor. 14.Regulate, control, take over, and grant franchises to, or itself operate gas, light, power, telephone, and other utilities, sanitary and sewage collection and disposal systems, water supply, treatment, and service systems, and public transportation systems, provided, however, that: (a)Franchises under this subsection may only be granted by a two-thirds vote of the members of the Board present and approved by a majority vote of those qualified electors voting at either a special or general election. (b)The county shall not operate a light, power, or telephone utility to serve any territory in the county which is being supplied with similar service except by a majority vote of those qualified electors voting in an election held not less than six months after the Board has passed an ordinance to that effect by a two-thirds vote of the members of the Board present. Such ordinance shall contain information on cost, method of financing, agency to regulate rates, agency to operate, location, and other information necessary to inform the general public of the feasibility and practicability of the proposed operation. 15.Use public funds for the purposes of promoting the development of the county, including advertising of the area's advantages.16.Establish and enforce regulations for the sale of alcoholic beverages in the unincorporated areas and approve municipal regulations on hours of sale of alcoholic beverages. 17.Enter into contracts with other governmental units within or outside the boundaries of the county for joint performance or performance by one unit in behalf of the other of any authorized function. 18.Set reasonable minimum standards for all governmental units in the county for the performance of any service or function. The standards shall not be discriminatory as between similar areas. If a governmental unit fails to comply with such standards, and does not correct such failure after reasonable notice by the Board, then the Board may take over and perform, regulate, or grant franchises to operate any such service. The Board may also take over and operate, or grant franchises to operate any municipal service if: (a)In an election called by the Board of County Commissioners within the municipality a majority of those voting vote in favor of turning the service over to the county; or (b)The governing body of the municipality requests the county to take over the service by a two-thirds vote of its members, or by referendum. 19.By ordinance, abolish or consolidate the office of constables, or any county office created by the Legislature, or provide for the consolidation and transfer of any of the functions of such officers, provided, however, that there shall be no power to abolish the Superintendent of Public Instruction, or to abolish or impair the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court or to abolish any other Court, provided by the Constitution or by general law, or the judges or clerks thereof. 20.Make investigations of county affairs, inquire into the conduct, accounts, records, and transactions of any department or office of the county, and for these purposes require reports from all county officers and employees, subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and require the production of records. 21.Exercise all powers and privileges granted to municipalities, counties, and county officers by the Constitution and laws of the state, and all powers not prohibited by the Constitution or by this Charter. 22.Adopt such ordinances and resolutions as may be required in the exercise of its powers, and prescribe fines and penalties for the violation of ordinances. 23.Perform any other acts consistent with law which are required by this Charter or which are in the common interest of the people of the county. 24.Supersede, nullify, or amend any special law applying to this county, or any general law applying only to this county, or any general law where specifically authorized by the Constitution. B.No enumeration of powers in this Charter shall be deemed exclusive or restrictive and the foregoing powers shall be deemed to include all implied powers necessary and proper to carrying out such powers. All of these powers may be exercised in the incorporated and unincorporated areas, subject to the procedures herein provided in certain cases relating to municipalities. C.The Board shall have the power of eminent domain and the right to condemn property for public purposes. The Board shall make fair and just compensation for any properties acquired in the exercise of its powers, duties, or functions. The Board shall also provide for the acquisition or transfer of property, the payment, assumption, or other satisfaction of the debts, and the protection of pension rights of affected employees of any governmental unit which is merged, consolidated, or abolished or whose boundaries are changed or functions or powers transferred. D.The Board shall be entitled to levy in the unincorporated areas all taxes authorized to be levied by municipalities and to receive from the state any revenues collected in the unincorporated areas on the same basis as municipalities. SECTION 1.02. RESOLUTIONS AND ORDINANCES.A.The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure and shall decide which actions of the Board shall be by ordinance or resolution, except as otherwise provided in this Charter and except that any action of the Board which provides for raising revenue, appropriating funds, or incurring indebtedness (other than refunding indebtedness), or which provides a penalty or establishes a rule or regulation for the violation of which a penalty is imposed shall be by ordinance. B.Every ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall contain a brief title. The enacting clause shall be "Be it Ordained by the Board." After passage on first reading, a short summary of the ordinance shall be published in a daily newspaper of general circulation at least once together with a notice of the time when and place where it will be given a public hearing and be considered for final passage. The first such publication shall be at least one week prior to the time advertised for hearing. No ordinance shall be declared invalid by reason of any defect in publication or title if the published summary gives reasonable notice of its intent. C.At the time and place so advertised, or at any time and place to which such public hearing may from time to time be adjourned, the ordinance shall be read by title and a public hearing shall be held. After the hearing, the Board may pass the ordinance with or without amendment. No provision herein shall prohibit a committee of the commission from conducting such public hearing, as provided by Section 1.08 D.The Board may adopt in whole or in part any published code by reference as an ordinance in the manner provided by law.E.The effective date of any ordinance shall be prescribed therein, but the effective date shall not be earlier than ten days after its enactment. F.To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public safety the Board by two-thirds vote of the members of the Board may adopt an emergency ordinance at the meeting at which it is introduced, and may make it effective immediately, except that no such ordinance may be used to levy taxes, grant or extend a franchise, or authorize the borrowing of money. After the adoption of an emergency ordinance, the Board shall have it published in full within ten days in a daily newspaper of general circulation. G.Each ordinance and resolution after adoption shall be given a serial number and shall be entered by the clerk in a properly indexed record kept for that purpose. H.Within two years after adoption of this Charter the Board shall have prepared a general codification of all county ordinances and resolutions having the effect of law. The general codification thus prepared shall be adopted by the Board in a single ordinance. After adoption the Board shall have the codification printed immediately in an appropriate manner together with the Charter and such rules and regulations as the Board may direct. Additions or amendments to the code shall be prepared, adopted, and printed at least every two years. SECTION 1.03. DISTRICTS.A.There shall be thirteen County Commission districts. The current boundaries of these districts shall be as shown on the map attached as Exhibit A and made a part hereof. B.The Board may by ordinance adopted by two-thirds vote of the members of the Board change the boundaries of the districts from time to time. The boundaries shall be fixed on the basis of the character, population, and geography of the districts. SECTION 1.04. COMPOSITION OF THE COMMISSION. The Commission shall consist of thirteen members, each of whom shall be a qualified elector residing within his or her district for at least six months and within the County for at least three years before qualifying and who shall be elected by the qualified electors of his or her district. SECTION 1.05. FORFEITURE OF OFFICE OF COUNTY ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.A.Any member of the Board of County Commissioners who ceases to be a qualified voter of the county or removes himself from the county or the district from which he was elected, or who fails to attend meetings without good cause for a period of six months, shall immediately forfeit his office. Any Commissioner who ceases to reside in the district which he represents shall also immediately forfeit his office. B.Any elected or appointed county official who holds any other elective office, whether federal, state or municipal, shall forfeit his county position, provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any officials presently holding such other office during the remainder of the present terms. C.Any appointed official or employee of Dade County who qualifies as a candidate for election to any federal, state or municipal office shall immediately take a leave of absence from his or her county position until the date of the election and shall, if elected, immediately forfeit his or her county position. If the candidate is not elected, he or she shall immediately be reinstated to his or her former position. SECTION 1.06. SALARY. Each County Commissioner shall receive a salary of $6,000 per year payable monthly and shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such reasonable and necessary expenses as may be approved by the Board. SECTION 1.07. VACANCIES IN THE OFFICE OF MAYOR OR COUNTY COMMISSIONER. Any vacancy in the office of Mayor or the members of the Board shall be filled by majority vote of the remaining members of the Board within 30 days, or the Board shall call an election to be held not more than 90 days thereafter to fill the vacancy. The qualification period for such election shall be the first 10 days after the call of the election and any runoff election shall be held within 30 days of the certification of election results requiring a runoff. The person chosen to fill the office vacated must at the time of appointment meet the residence requirements for the office to which such person is appointed. A person appointed shall serve only until the next county-wide election. A person elected shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of office. If a majority of the members of the Board should become appointed rather than elected to office, then the Board shall call an election to be held not more than 90 days thereafter to permit the registered electors to elect commissioners to succeed the appointed commissioners; appointed commissioners may succeed themselves unless otherwise prohibited by the Charter. The qualification period for such election shall be the first 10 days after the call of the election and any runoff election shall be held within 30 days of the certification of election results requiring a runoff. If a county-wide election is scheduled to be held within 180 days from the date on which the majority of the members of the Board become appointive, the Board may elect to defer the required election until the scheduled county-wide election. SECTION 1.08. ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION AND COMMISSION COMMITTEES. The Mayor shall not be a member of the Commission. The Commission shall select the chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Commission. The Chairperson shall preside over commission meetings and perform such other duties set forth in the charter and ordinances of Miami-Dade County. The Vice-Chairperson shall perform the duties of the chairperson in the absence or incapacity of the Chairperson. Any member may be selected by the Commission to preside over commission meetings in the event of the absence of the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson. The Commission may organize itself into standing committees, special committees, and ad hoc committees. Upon formation of any such committees, the Commission may appoint its members or authorize the Chairperson to appoint committee members. Commission committees may conduct public hearings, as authorized by ordinance of the Commission. The Clerk of the Circuit Court or a deputy shall serve as clerk of the Commission. No action of the Commission shall be taken except by a majority vote of those present at a meeting at which a majority of the Commissioners then in office is present. All meetings shall be public.

,ARTICLE 2. MAYOR

SECTION 2.01. ELECTION OF MAYOR.SECTION 2.02. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MAYOR.SECTION 2.03. TEMPORARY TRANSFER OF MAYORAL POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES UPON A VACANCY OR INCAPACITY IN THE OFFICE OF MAYOR.SECTION 2.01. ELECTION OF MAYOR. There shall be elected by the qualified electors of the county at large a Mayor who shall be a qualified elector residing within the county at least three years before qualifying. The Mayor shall not serve as a member of the Commission. SECTION 2.02. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MAYOR. The Mayor shall serve as head of the county government with the following specific powers and responsibilities: A.The Mayor shall be responsible for the management of all administrative departments of the County government and for carrying out policies adopted by the Commission. The Mayor, or such other persons who may be designated by the Mayor, shall execute contracts and other instruments, and sign bonds and other evidences of indebtedness. The Mayor shall serve as the head of the County for emergency management purposes. B.The Mayor shall have the right to attend and be heard at any regular or special open session meeting of the Commission, but not the right to vote at such meetings. C.Unless otherwise provided by this Charter, the Mayor shall have the power to appoint all department directors of the administrative departments of the County. Appointment of these department directors shall become effective unless disapproved by a two-thirds majority of those Commissioners then in office at the Commission's next regularly scheduled meeting. The Mayor shall also have the right to suspend, reprimand, remove, or discharge any administrative department director, with or without cause. D.The Mayor shall within ten days of final adoption by the Commission, have veto authority over any legislative, quasi-judicial, zoning, master plan or land use decision of the Commission, including the budget or any particular component contained therein which was approved by the Commission; provided, however, that (1) if any revenue item is vetoed, an expenditure item in the same or greater dollar amount must also be vetoed and (2) the Mayor may not veto the selection of the chairperson or vice-chairperson of the commission, the enactment of commission committee rules, the formation of commission committees, or the appointment of members to commission committees. The Commission may at its next regularly scheduled meeting after the veto occurs, override that veto by a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners present. E.The Mayor shall prepare and deliver a report on the state of the county to the people of the county between November 1 and January 31 annually. Such report shall be prepared after consultation with the Commissioners. F.The Mayor shall prepare and deliver a budgetary address annually to the people of the county in March. Such address shall set forth the Mayor's funding priorities for the County. (Am. of 11-2-10) Note—By special election called pursuant to Resolution No. R-573-10, and held on August 24, 2010, the voters amended Section 2.02 effective the second Tuesday next succeeding the date of the general election held November 2012. SECTION 2.03. TEMPORARY TRANSFER OF MAYORAL POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES UPON A VACANCY OR INCAPACITY IN THE OFFICE OF MAYOR. Upon a vacancy or incapacity in the Office of Mayor and until such time as the vacancy is filled in accordance with Section 1.07 of the Charter or the Mayor is no longer incapacitated, the powers and responsibilities vested by this Charter in the Office of Mayor to head the County for emergency management purposes, to hire department directors and to recommend waivers of competitive bidding shall be temporarily vested in the Office of the Chairperson of the County Commission as supplementary powers and responsibilities of such Office and shall not reside in the Office of Mayor. During such time, if the Chairperson relinquishes such supplemental powers and responsibilities in writing filed with the Clerk of the Board, such supplemental powers shall be vested in the Office of Vice-Chairperson of the County Commission. If the Vice-Chairperson relinquishes such supplemental powers and responsibilities in writing filed with the Clerk of the Board, such supplemental powers shall be vested in a commissioner chosen by a majority of those Board members present. The temporary removal and transfer of powers and responsibilities provided for in this Section shall not be construed to fill the vacancy in the Office of Mayor. Immediately upon filling the vacancy in the Office of Mayor the powers and responsibilities vested in the Office of Mayor shall be as provided in this Charter without regard to this Section. The Board shall by ordinance establish a definition of incapacity in the Office of Mayor for purposes of this Section.

,ARTICLE 3. ELECTIONS

SECTION 3.01. ELECTION AND COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.SECTION 3.02. RESERVED.SECTION 3.03. NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS.SECTION 3.04. QUALIFICATIONS AND FILING FEE.SECTION 3.05. RESERVED.SECTION 3.06. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS AND STATE LAWS.SECTION 3.07. CANVASSING ELECTIONS.SECTION 3.01. ELECTION AND COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.A.The election of the Commissioners from even-numbered districts shall be held in 1994 and every four years thereafter and the election of Commissioners from odd-numbered districts shall be held in 1996 and every four years thereafter at the time of the state primary elections. B.A candidate must receive a majority of the votes cast to be elected. Effective with the election for County Commission in 2004, if no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast there will be a runoff election at the time of the general election following the state primary election between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes. Should a tie result, the outcome shall be determined by lot. C.Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, beginning with the elections in 2004, the terms of office of the Mayor and County Commissioners shall commence on the second Tuesday next succeeding the date of the general election in November. D.Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter, effective with the term of Mayor scheduled to commence in October, 1996, no person shall be elected as Mayor for more than two consecutive four-year terms. Neither service as Mayor or County Commissioner prior to the terms scheduled to commence in October, 1996, nor service of a partial term subsequent to October, 1996, shall be considered in applying the term limitation provisions of this section. E.Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter, effective with the term of Commissioners scheduled to commence in 2012, no person shall be elected as Commissioner for more than two consecutive four-year terms. No term of service as a Commissioner commencing prior to 2012 shall be considered a part of or counted toward the two term limit. SECTION 3.02. RESERVED.SECTION 3.03. NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS. All elections for Mayor and the other members of the Board shall be nonpartisan and no ballot shall show the party designation of any candidate. No candidate shall be required to pay any party assessment or state the party of which he is a member or the manner in which he voted or will vote in any election. SECTION 3.04. QUALIFICATIONS AND FILING FEE.A.All candidates for the office of Mayor or County Commissioner shall qualify with the Clerk of the Circuit Court no earlier than the 84th day and no later than noon on the 70th day prior to the date of the election at which he is a candidate in the method provided by law or ordinance, and shall pay a filing fee of $300. All filing fees shall be paid into the general funds of the county. B.Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person who seeks to qualify as a candidate for the office of Mayor or County Commissioner and who meets the petition requirements of this section is not required to pay the filing fee required by this section or any other qualifying fee required by the state (collectively the "Qualifying Fee"). A candidate who seeks to qualify without paying the Qualifying Fee must obtain the number of signatures of voters in the geographical area represented by the office sought equal to at least 1 percent of the total number of registered voters of that geographical area, as shown by the compilation by the Supervisor of Elections for the immediately preceding general election. Signatures may not be obtained until the candidate has filed the appointment of campaign treasurer and designation of campaign depository pursuant to state law. The format of the petition shall be prescribed by the Supervisor of Elections and shall be used by candidates to reproduce petitions for circulation. Each petition must be submitted before noon of the 28th day preceding the first day of the qualifying period for the office sought to the Supervisor of Elections. The Supervisor shall check the signatures on the petitions to verify their status as voters in the geographical area represented by the office sought. No later than the 7th day before the first day of the qualifying period, the Supervisor of Elections shall certify the number of valid signatures. The Supervisor of Elections shall determine whether the required number of signatures has been obtained and shall notify the candidate. If the required number of signatures has been obtained, the candidate shall be eligible to qualify pursuant to this section without paying the Qualifying Fee. SECTION 3.05. RESERVED.SECTION 3.06. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS AND STATE LAWS.A.The Board may adopt by ordinance any additional regulations governing elections not inconsistent with this Charter.B.Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by ordinance adopted hereunder the provisions of the election laws of this state shall apply to elections held under this Charter. SECTION 3.07. CANVASSING ELECTIONS. All elections under this Charter shall be canvassed by the County Canvassing Board as provided under the election laws of this state.

,ARTICLE 4. RESERVED [2]



,ARTICLE 5. ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE

SECTION 5.01. DEPARTMENTS.SECTION 5.02. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.SECTION 5.03. FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION.SECTION 5.04. ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAXES.SECTION 5.05. DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL.SECTION 5.06. DEPARTMENT OF LAW.SECTION 5.07. DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING.SECTION 5.08. BOARDS.SECTION 5.09. RESTRICTION ON THE COMMISSION MEMBERS.SECTION 5.01. DEPARTMENTS. There shall be departments of finance, personnel, planning, law, and such other departments as may be established by administrative order of the Mayor. All administrative functions not otherwise specifically assigned to others by this Charter shall be performed under the supervision of the Mayor. SECTION 5.02. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE. The Mayor shall have the power to issue and place into effect administrative orders, rules, and regulations. The organization and operating procedure of administrative departments shall be set forth in regulations, which the Mayor shall develop, place into effect by administrative orders, and submit to the Board. SECTION 5.03. FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION.A.The department of finance shall be headed by a finance director appointed by the Mayor and the Clerk of the Circuit and County Courts. The finance director shall have charge of the financial affairs of the county. B.Between June 1 and July 15, the County Mayor should prepare a proposed budget containing a complete financial plan, including capital and operating budgets, for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget prepared and recommended by the Mayor, shall be presented by the Mayor or his or her designee to the Commission on or before the Board adopts tentative millage rates for the ensuing fiscal year. A summary of the budget shall be published and the Board shall hold hearings on and adopt a budget on or before the dates required by law. C.No money shall be drawn from the county treasury nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred except pursuant to appropriation and except that the Board may establish working capital, revolving, pension, or trust funds and may provide that expenditures from such funds can be made without specific appropriation. The Board, by ordinance, may transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from one department, fund, or agency to another, subject to the provisions of ordinance. Any portion of the earnings or balance of the several funds, other than sinking funds for obligations not yet retired, may be transferred to the general funds of the county by the Board. D.Contracts for public improvements and purchases of supplies, materials, and services other than professional shall be made whenever practicable on the basis of specifications and competitive bids. Formal sealed bids shall be secured for all such contracts and purchases when the transaction involves more than the minimum amount established by the Board of County Commissioners by ordinance. The transaction shall be evidenced by written contract submitted and approved by the Board. The Board, upon written recommendation of the Mayor, may by resolution adopted by two-thirds vote of the members present waive competitive bidding when it finds this to be in the best interest of the county. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Charter to the contrary, in circumstances where the Mayor informs the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners in writing that he or she has a conflict of interest in the solicitation, evaluation, award, or recommendation of award of a contract, the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners and not the Mayor shall have all authority provided by this Charter or the Board to solicit, evaluate, award or recommend the award of such contract including, but not limited to, the authority to recommend a bid waiver in writing. E.Any county official or employee of the county who has a special financial interest, direct or indirect, in any action by the Board shall make known that interest and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in such transaction. Willful violation of this Section shall constitute malfeasance in office, shall effect forfeiture of office or position, and render the transaction voidable by the Board. F.Such officers and employees of the county as the Board may designate shall give bond in the amount and with the surety prescribed by the Board. The bond premiums shall be paid by the county. G.At the end of each fiscal year the Board shall provide for an audit by an independent certified public accountant designated by the Board of the accounts and finances of the county for the fiscal year just completed. H.The Budget Commission created by Chapter 21874, Laws of Florida, 1943, is hereby abolished, and Chapter 21874 shall no longer be of any effect. SECTION 5.04. ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAXES.A.Commencing with the general election to be held in November 2008 and every four years thereafter, the Miami-Dade County Property Appraiser shall be elected on a nonpartisan basis, by a majority of the qualified electors voting at a county-wide election held within Miami-Dade County, Florida. B.Beginning with the tax year 1961, the county tax rolls prepared by the county shall be the only legal tax rolls in this county for the assessment and collection of county and municipal taxes. Thereafter no municipality shall have an assessor or prepare an ad valorem tax roll. Each municipality shall continue to have the right to adopt its own budget, fix its own millage, and levy its own taxes. Each municipality shall certify its levies to the County not later than 30 days after the county tax rolls have been finally approved by the Board. Any municipality may obtain a copy of this tax roll upon payment of the cost of preparing such a copy, and copies of the tax rolls shall be available for public inspection at reasonable times. Maps showing the assessed valuation of each parcel of property may be prepared and made available for sale to the public at a reasonable price. C.All county and municipal taxes for the tax year beginning January 1, 1961, and all subsequent tax years, shall be collected by the county on one bill prepared and sent out by the county. The amounts of county and municipal taxes shall be shown as separate items, and may be paid separately. D.Delinquent municipal taxes shall be collected in the same manner as delinquent county taxes.E.All the tax revenues collected for any municipality shall be returned monthly by the county to the municipality.SECTION 5.05. DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL.A.The Board of County Commissioners shall establish and maintain personnel and civil service, retirement, and group insurance programs. The personnel system of the county shall be based on merit principles in order to foster effective career service in county employment and to employ those persons best qualified for county services which they are to perform. B.The Mayor shall appoint a personnel director who shall head the department of personnel and whose duty it shall be to administer the personnel and civil service programs and the rules governing them. The standards of such programs shall not be less than those prevailing at the time of the effective date of this Charter. C.Except as provided herein, Chapter 30255, General Laws, 1955, as it exists on the effective date of this Charter, shall remain in effect until amended or changed by ordinance of the Board of County Commissioners adopted by two-thirds vote of the members present after recommendation from either the Personnel Advisory Board or the County Mayor. D.Employees of municipalities who, by merger, transfer, or assignment of governmental units or functions become county employees, shall not lose the civil service rights or privileges which have accrued to them during their period of employment with such municipality, and the county shall use its best efforts to employ these employees within the limits of their capabilities. However, if because of the merger of a department or division of a municipality with the county, all of the employees of such department or division are unable to be employed by the county either because of lack of funds or lack of work, the employee possessing the greater amount of service shall be retained in accordance with civil service rules and regulations. Those employees who are not retained shall be placed on a priority list for employment by the county subject to seniority. Any non-retained employee shall have the option, if a vacancy occurs or exists in another department, and if he is qualified to render the service required, to either accept such employment or remain on the priority list until such time as employment shall be available for him in his own or similar classification. E.The pension plan presently provided by the state for county employees shall not be impaired by the Board. Employees of municipalities, who by merger, transfer, or assignment of governmental units or functions become county employees shall not lose their pension rights, or any reserves accrued to their benefit during their period of employment with such municipality. The Board of County Commissioners shall provide a method by which these employees' rights and reserves shall be protected, and these employees shall continue until retirement, dismissal, or death in a pension status no less beneficial than the status held by them at the time of merger or assignment. F.The Board of County Commissioners shall provide and place into effect a practical group insurance plan for all county employees.SECTION 5.06. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. There shall be a County Attorney appointed by the Board of County Commissioners, subject to veto by the Mayor unless overridden by a two-thirds majority of those Commissioners then in office who shall serve at the will of the Board and who shall head the department of law. He shall devote his full time to the service of the county and shall serve as legal counsel to the Board, Mayor, and all county departments, offices, and agencies, and perform such other legal duties as may be assigned to him. He may appoint such assistants as may be necessary in order that his duties may be performed properly. The Board may employ special counsel for specific needs. (Am. of 11-2-10) Note—By special election called pursuant to Resolution No. R-573-10, and held on August 24, 2010, the voters amended Section 5.06 effective the second Tuesday next succeeding the date of the general election held November 2012. SECTION 5.07. DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING. The department of planning shall be headed by a planning director appointed by the Mayor. The planning director shall be qualified in the field of planning by special training and experience. Under the supervision of the Mayor and with the advice of the Planning Advisory Board elsewhere provided for in this Charter, the planning director shall among other things: 1.Conduct studies of county population, land use, facilities, resources, and needs and other factors which influence the county's development, and on the basis of such studies prepare such official and other maps and reports as, taken together, constitute a master plan for the welfare, recreational, economic, and physical development of the county. 2.Prepare for review by the Planning Advisory Board, and for adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, zoning, subdivision and related regulations for the unincorporated areas of the county and minimum standards governing zoning, subdivision, and related regulations for the municipalities; and prepare recommendations to effectuate the master plan and to coordinate the county's proposed capital improvements with the master plan. 3.Review the municipal systems of planning, zoning, subdivision, and related regulations and make recommendations thereon with a view of coordinating such municipal systems with one another and with those of the county. SECTION 5.08. BOARDS.A.The Board of County Commissioners shall by ordinance create a Planning Advisory Board, a Zoning Appeals Board, and such other boards as it may deem necessary, prescribing in each case the number, manner of appointment, length of term, and advisory or quasi-judicial duties of members of such boards, who shall serve without compensation but who may be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in official duties, as may be determined and approved by the Board of County Commissioners. B.The Board of County Commissioners may by ordinance provide for the expansion of the City of Miami Water and Sewer Board to an agency county-wide in scope and authority, with the power to acquire, construct and operate water and sewer systems within the incorporated and the unincorporated areas of Dade County, which agency shall be known as the Miami-Dade Water and Sewer Authority. The Miami-Dade Water and Sewer Authority shall have the responsibility to develop and operate a county-wide water and sewer system for the purpose of providing potable water, sewage collection and disposal and water pollution abatement to the citizens of Dade County. C.Dade County shall retain all its powers, including but not limited to that of eminent domain, in relation to the creation of a county-wide water and sewer system. SECTION 5.09. RESTRICTION ON THE COMMISSION MEMBERS.A.No Commissioner shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his or her removal from, office by any subordinate of the Mayor, or take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative services of the County, nor shall any subordinate of the Mayor accede to such direction or request. B.Except where otherwise prohibited by Ordinance, Commissioners shall be permitted to communicate and make inquiries of the administrative services for the purpose of transmitting constituent inquiries or assisting Commissioners in the exercise of their powers as set forth in Section 1.01A. Except as provided elsewhere in this Charter, Commissioners shall not be permitted to give orders, either publicly or privately, to any subordinate of the Mayor. No County employee or official, other than the County Mayor or his or her designee, shall respond to or undertake any action to comply with any request by any Commissioner which violates the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The County Mayor shall not knowingly allow any Commissioner to deal with the administrative services in violation of the provisions of this section. (Am. of 11-2-10) Note—By special election called pursuant to Resolution No. R-573-10, and held on August 24, 2010, the voters added Section 5.09 effective the second Tuesday next succeeding the date of the general election held November 2012.

,ARTICLE 6. MUNICIPALITIES

SECTION 6.01. CONTINUANCE OF MUNICIPALITIES.SECTION 6.02. MUNICIPAL POWERS.SECTION 6.03. MUNICIPAL CHARTERS.SECTION 6.04. CHANGES IN MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.SECTION 6.05. CREATION OF NEW MUNICIPALITIES.SECTION 6.06. CONTRACTS WITH OTHER UNITS OF GOVERNMENT.SECTION 6.07. FRANCHISE AND UTILITY TAXES.SECTION 6.01. CONTINUANCE OF MUNICIPALITIES. The municipalities in the county shall remain in existence so long as their electors desire. No municipality in the county shall be abolished without approval of a majority of its electors voting in an election called for that purpose. Notwithstanding any provision of the Charter, the Board of County Commissioners shall have the authority to abolish a municipality by ordinance where such municipality has twenty or fewer electors at the time of adoption of the ordinance abolishing the municipality. The right of self determination in local affairs is reserved and pre-reserved to the municipalities except as otherwise provided in this Charter. SECTION 6.02. MUNICIPAL POWERS. Each municipality shall have the authority to exercise all powers relating to its local affairs not inconsistent with this Charter. Each municipality may provide for higher standards of zoning, service, and regulation than those provided by the Board of County Commissioners in order that its individual character and standards may be preserved for its citizens. SECTION 6.03. MUNICIPAL CHARTERS.A.Except as provided in Section 6.04, any municipality in the county may adopt, amend, or revoke a charter for its own government or abolish its existence in the following manner. Its governing body shall, within 120 days after adopting a resolution or after the certification of a petition of ten percent of the qualified electors of the municipality, draft or have drafted by a method determined by municipal ordinance a proposed charter amendment, revocation, or abolition which shall be submitted to the electors of the municipalities. Unless an election occurs not less than 60 nor more than 120 days after the draft is submitted, the proposal shall be submitted at a special election within that time. The governing body shall make copies of the proposal available to the electors not less than 30 days before the election. Alternative proposals may be submitted. Each proposal approved by a majority of the electors voting on such proposal shall become effective at the time fixed in the proposal. B.All municipal charters, amendments thereto, and repeals thereof shall be filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court.SECTION 6.04. CHANGES IN MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.A.The planning director shall study municipal boundaries with a view to recommending their orderly adjustment, improvement, and establishment. Proposed boundary changes may be initiated by the Planning Advisory Board, the Board of County Commissioners, the governing body of a municipality, or by a petition of any person or group concerned. B.The Board of County Commissioners, after obtaining the approval of the municipal governing bodies concerned, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, and after a public hearing, may by ordinance effect boundary changes, with an affirmative vote of the members of the Board of County Commissioners. In making such decision, the Board shall consider whether commercial areas are included in the boundaries of the proposed area to be annexed for the mere benefit of increasing the tax base of the annexing municipality. Changes that involve the annexation or separation of an area of which more than 250 residents are electors shall also require an affirmative vote of a majority of those electors voting. Upon any such boundary change any conflicting boundaries set forth in the charter of such municipality shall be considered amended. C.No municipal boundary shall be altered except as provided by this Section.SECTION 6.05. CREATION OF NEW MUNICIPALITIES.A.The Board of County Commissioners and only the Board may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of the county after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries. The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint a charter commission, consisting of five electors residing within the proposed boundaries, who shall propose a charter to be submitted to the electors in the manner provided in Section 6.03. The new municipality shall have all the powers and rights granted to or not withheld from municipalities by this Charter and the Constitution and general laws of the State of Florida. Notwithstanding any provision of this Charter to the contrary, with regard to any municipality created after September 1, 2000, the pre-agreed conditions between the County and the prospective municipality which are included in the municipal charter can only be changed if approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Board of County Commissioners then in office, prior to a vote of qualified municipal electors. B.A new municipality may also be created by petition of electors residing in the area to be incorporated in accordance with the following process: 1.An incorporation committee composed of a minimum of five (5) electors from the proposed area of incorporation will initiate the process by filing with the Clerk of the Circuit Court an initiatory petition on a form prescribed by the Clerk for such purpose. The form shall identify the names and addresses of the Incorporation Committee members and describe the proposed incorporation area. The form of the petition shall prominently state that a budgetary analysis and a copy of the proposed charter will be distributed to the electors within the area and made available, as required by this section. Within seven (7) days of receipt of the form, the Clerk will determine if the form is acceptable and if it is acceptable shall approve the form of petition and provide the Incorporation Committee the total number of the electors within the proposed incorporation area and the number of required signatures which shall be equal to twenty percent (20%) of the electors in the proposed incorporation area and shall notify the Board of County Commissioners. If the Clerk determines that the form of petition does not comply with the requirements of this Charter or inaccurately describes proposed boundaries, the Clerk may disapprove the form of petition and provide notification to the Incorporation Committee and the Board of County Commissioners of the disapproval. The Clerk shall advise the Incorporation Committee as to the reasons for disapproval and the Incorporation Committee may submit a new petition at any time. If the Clerk approves the form of the petition, the Incorporation Committee, within ninety (90) days of such approval, shall submit to the Board of County Commissioners a proposed municipal charter, which, at a minimum, shall set forth the form of government and governing body of the newly incorporated area as well as provide for the conditions for incorporation as set forth in Section 6.05(B)(7) below. During such ninety (90) day period, the incorporation committee shall hold at least three public hearings on the proposed municipal charter, in three different locations in the area proposed to be incorporated, notice of which shall be mailed to all electors within the area proposed for incorporation. 2.(a)No later than ninety (90) days from the date of approval of the above form by the Clerk, the Board of County Commissioners shall review the appropriateness of the petition for incorporation and proposed municipal charter and recommend any changes to the boundaries of the proposed municipality and proposed municipal charter to the Incorporation Committee at a public hearing. (b)At such public hearing, the Board of County Commissioners shall approve the proposed incorporation petition, as presented in the petition or as revised by the Incorporation Committee, or reject the incorporation petition as presented or as revised by the Incorporation Committee. (c)The County Commission's failure to review the incorporation petition within the time required by this paragraph is subject to mandamus by a court of competent jurisdiction. 3.The Incorporation Committee will have six (6) months from the date by which the Board was required to have reviewed the incorporation petition to obtain signatures equal to twenty percent (20%) of the electors in the proposed incorporation area, with signatures on a petition provided by the Clerk. The petition shall require the name, address and signature of the elector and such signatures shall be notarized. 4.The signed petitions will be submitted to the Supervisor of Elections, who shall have thirty (30) days to canvass the signatures contained therein. 5.Upon certification of the sufficiency of the signatures on the petition, the Supervisor of Elections shall present the petition to the Board of County Commissioners at their next regularly scheduled meeting. After conducting a public hearing at such meeting, the Board of County Commissioners shall decide whether or not to call an election to authorize the creation of a city and approve a municipal charter for the proposed municipality. If the Board decides to call an election to authorize the creation of the municipality and approve the municipal charter, such election shall occur no sooner than ninety (90) and no greater than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the Supervisor of Elections certifies the signatures. The election shall be held, whenever practicable, in conjunction with another election scheduled to occur within the prescribed time period. The election shall be decided by an affirmative vote of a majority of electors voting in the proposed incorporation area. 6.During the sixty (60) days following the certification of the petition, the Board shall complete a budgetary analysis in cooperation with the Incorporation Committee of and on the proposed incorporation area and schedule at least one public hearing prior to the incorporation election. The budgetary analysis, including a response by the incorporation committee if submitted, shall be provided to the resident electors of the proposed municipality by mail and shall be made available at locations within the proposed municipality. The proposed municipal charter shall be made available at locations within the proposed municipality and made available electronically. Such budgetary analysis shall at a minimum estimate all of the identifiable revenues generated by the proposed incorporation area prior to incorporation, and present the operating expenses of comparable small, medium and large municipalities providing typical municipal services. 7.The new municipality shall have all the powers and rights granted to or not withheld from municipalities by the County Home Rule Charter and the Constitution and general laws of the State of Florida; provided, however, any proposed municipality whose boundaries include any area outside the urban development boundary, as may be described in the County's Comprehensive Development Master Plan, shall abide by the permitted uses as set forth in such plan. It is further provided, as a condition of incorporation, that the new municipality shall provide in its charter: to remain a part of the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue District, to remain a part of the Miami-Dade Library System, to contract with Miami-Dade County for local patrol police services for a minimum of three years, for Miami-Dade County to retain authority for residential garbage and refuse collection and disposal within the proposed new municipality, and for the payment, assumption, or other satisfaction for that portion of the County's preexisting debts and obligations or other refundings secured by revenues or taxes collected within the proposed municipality's area and that neither the new municipality nor its electors shall take any action that would adversely affect the County's bond or other debt obligations that are secured by taxes or revenues from the area constituting the new municipality. SECTION 6.06. CONTRACTS WITH OTHER UNITS OF GOVERNMENT. Every municipality in this county shall have the power to enter into contracts with other governmental units within or outside the boundaries of the municipality or the county for the joint performance or performance by one unit in behalf of the other of any municipal function. SECTION 6.07. FRANCHISE AND UTILITY TAXES. Revenues realized from franchise and utility taxes imposed by municipalities shall belong to municipalities.

,ARTICLE 7. PARKS, AQUATIC PRESERVES, AND PRESERVATION LANDS.

Note: This Article does not apply to municipal property in Coral Gables, Hialeah, Hialeah Gardens, Miami, Sweetwater and West Miami. See Section 7.04. SECTION 7.01. POLICY.SECTION 7.02. RESTRICTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.SECTION 7.03. ENFORCEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION.SECTION 7.04. JURISDICTION.SECTION 7.01. POLICY. Parks, aquatic preserves, and lands acquired by the County for preservation shall be held in trust for the education, pleasure, and recreation of the public and they shall be used and maintained in a manner which will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations as a part of the public's irreplaceable heritage. They shall be protected from commercial development and exploitation and their natural landscape, flora and fauna, and scenic beauties shall be preserved. In lands acquired by the County for preservation and in parks along the Ocean or the Bay the public's access to and view of the water shall not be obstructed or impaired by buildings or other structures or concessions which are in excess of 1500 square feet each. Adequate maintenance shall be provided. SECTION 7.02. RESTRICTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS. In furtherance of this policy parks shall be used for public park purposes only, and subject to the limited exceptions set forth in this Article, there shall be no permanent structures or private commercial advertising erected in a public park or private commercial use of a public park or renewals, expansions, or extensions of existing leases, licenses, or concessions to private parties of public park property, unless each such structure, lease, license, renewal, expansion, extension, concession or use shall be approved by a majority vote of the voters in a County-wide referendum. Nothing in this Article shall prevent any contract with federally tax-exempt not-for-profit youth, adult, and senior cultural, conservation and parks and recreation program providers. To ensure aquatic preserves, lands acquired by the County for preservation, and public parks or parts thereof which are nature preserves, beaches, natural forest areas, historic or archeological areas, or otherwise possess unique natural values in their present state, such as Matheson Hammock, Greynolds Park, Redlands Fruit and Spice Park, Castellow Hammock, Crandon Park, Trail Glades Park, Deering Estate Park, Pine Shore Park, Old Cutler Hammock, Chapman Field, Tamiami Pinelands, Wainright Park, Larry and Penny Thompson Park, Whispering Pines Hammock, Mangrove Preserve, Owaissa Bauer Park, Fuchs Hammock, Black Point Marina, Simpson Park, Sewell Park, Barnes Park, Virginia Key, mangrove preserves, and all other natural or historical resource based parks do not lose their natural or historical values, any structure, lease, license, renewal, extension, concession or use in any of this class of public parks or in aquatic preserves and preservation lands must be approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the voters in a County-wide referendum. No park shall be designed to be used beyond its appropriate carrying capacity and to the extent required by law all parks and facilities and permitted special events and concessions operating in the parks shall be fully accessible to persons with disabilities. Nothing in this Article shall prevent the maintenance of existing facilities, the maintenance, operation, and renovation of existing golf course and marina restaurants at their existing square footage by government agencies or private operators, provided such private operators are chosen as a result of competitive selection and their initial contract terms are limited to no more than ten years, or the construction, operation, maintenance, and repair by government agencies or private operators of or issuance of temporary permits for: A.Appropriate access roads, bridges, fences, lighting, flag poles, entrance features, picnic shelters, tables, grills, benches, irrigation systems, walls, erosion control devices, utilities, trash removal, parking and security and fire facilities for the primary use of the park system; B.Food and concession facilities each not in excess of 1500 square feet of enclosed space, with any complementary outdoor or covered areas needed to service park patrons; C.User-participation non-spectator recreation and, playground facilities, golf courses and golf-course related facilities, and bandstands and bandshells containing less than 1,000 spectator seats and athletic facilities, sports fields and arenas containing less than 3,000 spectator seats; D.Facilities for marinas, sightseeing and fishing boats, visiting military vessels, and fishing;E.Park signage and appropriate plaques and monuments;F.Rest rooms;G.Fountains, gardens, and works of art;H.Park service facilities, senior, day care and preschool facilities, small nature centers with not more than one classroom;I.Film permits, temporary fairs, art exhibits, performing arts, concerts, cultural and historic exhibitions, regattas, athletic contests and tournaments, none of which require the erection of permanent structures; J.Advertising in connection with sponsorship of events or facilities in the park, provided however all such facilities and uses are compatible with the particular park and are scheduled so that such events do not unreasonably impair the public use of the park or damage the park; K.Programming partnerships with qualified federally tax exempt not-for-profit youth, adult, and senior cultural, conservation, and parks and recreation program providers; L.Agreements with cable, internet, telephone, electric or similar service providers or utilities, so long as any installations are underground or do not adversely impact natural resources, or parks facilities and uses. No park facilities, golf courses, or County lands acquired for preservation shall be converted to or used for non-park offices, purposes, or uses. The County, the municipalities, and agencies or groups receiving any public funding shall not expend any public money or provide any publicly funded services in kind to any project which does not comply with this Article. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any structure in violation of this Article. The restrictions applying to parks in this Article shall not apply to the Dade County Youth Fair site, Metro Zoo, Tamiami Stadium, Haulover Fishing Pier, the Dade County Auditorium, the Museum of Science, the Gold Coast Railroad Museum, Vizcaya Museum and Gardens, Trail Glade Range, the Orange Bowl, the Commodore Ralph Munroe Marine Stadium, the Seaquarium, Curtis Park track and stadium, Fairchild Tropical Gardens, and mini and neighborhood parks except that no mini or neighborhood park may be leased or disposed of unless a majority of the residents residing in voting precincts any part of which is within 1 mile of the park authorize such sale or lease by majority vote in an election. SECTION 7.03. ENFORCEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION. All elections required by this Article shall be held either in conjunction with state primary or general elections or as part of bond issue elections. The provisions of this Article may be enforced by a citizen alleging a violation of this Article filed in the Dade County Circuit Court pursuant to its general equity jurisdiction, the plaintiff, if successful, shall be entitled to recover costs as fixed by the Court. The provisions of this Article shall be liberally construed in favor of the preservation of all park lands, aquatic preserves, and preservation lands. If any provision of this Article shall be declared invalid it shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Article. This Article shall not be construed to illegally impair any previously existing valid written contractual commitments or bids or bonded indebtedness. SECTION 7.04. JURISDICTION. Except as otherwise provided herein the provisions of this Article shall apply to all County and municipal parks, aquatic preserves, and lands acquired by the County for preservation now in existence or hereafter acquired, provided that if this Article was not favorably voted upon by a majority of the voters voting in any municipality at the time of the adoption of this Article the municipal parks of such municipality shall be excluded from the provisions of this Article.

,ARTICLE 8. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, AND RECALL

SECTION 8.01. INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.SECTION 8.02. RECALL.SECTION 8.01. INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM. The electors of the county shall have the power to propose to the Board of County Commissioners passage or repeal of ordinances and to vote on the question if the Board refuses action, according to the following procedure: 1.The person proposing the exercise of this power shall submit the proposal, including proposed ballot language to the Clerk of the Circuit Court who shall without delay approve as to form a petition for circulation in one or several copies as the proposer may desire. A public hearing shall be held on the proposal at the next Board of County Commissioner meeting subsequent to the date the Clerk approves the petition as to form. 2.The person or persons circulating the petition shall, within 120 days of the approval of the form of the petition, obtain the valid signatures of voters in the county in numbers at least equal to four percent of the registered voters in the county on the day on which the petition is approved, according to the official records of the County Supervisor of Elections. In determining the sufficiency of the petition, no more than 25 percent of the valid signatures required shall come from voters registered in any single county commission district. Each signer of a petition shall place thereon, after his name, the date, and his place of residence or precinct number. Each person circulating a copy of the petition shall attach to it a sworn affidavit stating the number of signers and the fact that each signature was made in the presence of the circulator of the petition. 3.The signed petition shall be filed with the Board which shall within 30 days order a canvass of the signatures thereon to determine the sufficiency of the signatures. If the number of signatures is insufficient or the petition is deficient as to form or compliance with this Section, the Board shall notify the person filing the petition that the petition is insufficient and has failed. 4.The Board may within 30 days after the date a sufficient petition is presented adopt the ordinance as submitted in an initiatory petition or repeal the ordinance referred to by a referendary petition. If the Board does not adopt or repeal the ordinance as provided above, then the proposal shall be placed on the ballot without further action of the Board. 5.If the proposal is submitted to the electors, the election shall be held either:(a)In the next scheduled county-wide election, or(b)If the petition contains the valid signatures in the county in numbers at least equal to eight percent of the registered voters in the county, the election shall take place on the first Tuesday after 120 days from certification of the petition. The result shall be determined by a majority vote of the electors voting on the proposal. 6.An ordinance proposed by initiatory petition or the repeal of an ordinance by referendary petition shall be effective on the day after the election, except that: (a)Any reduction or elimination of existing revenue or any increase in expenditures not provided for by the current budget or by existing bond issues shall not take effect until the beginning of the next succeeding fiscal year; and (b)Rights accumulated under an ordinance between the time a certified referendary petition against the ordinance is presented to the Board and the repeal of the ordinance by the voters, shall not be enforced against the county; and (c)Should two or more ordinances adopted at the same election have conflicting provisions, the one receiving the highest number of votes shall prevail as to those provisions. 7.An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings shall not be amended or repealed by the Board for a period of one year after the election at which it was adopted, but thereafter it may be amended or repealed like any other ordinance. SECTION 8.02. RECALL. Any member of the Board of County Commissioners, the Mayor, or the Property Appraiser may be removed from office by the electors of the county, district, or municipality by which he was chosen. The procedure on a recall petition shall be identical with that for an initiatory or referendary petition, except that: 1.The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall approve the form of the petition.2.The person or persons circulating the petition must obtain signatures of electors of the county, district, or municipality concerned in numbers at least equal to four percent of the registered voters in the county district or municipality on the day on which the petition is approved, according to the official records of the County Supervisor of Elections. 3.The signed petition shall be filed with and canvassed and certified by the Clerk of the Circuit Court.4.The Board of County Commissioners must provide for a recall election not less than 45 nor more than 90 days after the certification of the petition. 5.The question of recall shall be placed on the ballot in a manner that will give the elector a clear choice for or against the recall. The result shall be determined by a majority vote of the electors voting on the question. 6.If the majority is against recall the officer shall continue in office under the terms of his previous election. If the majority is for recall he shall, regardless of any defect in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office immediately. 7.No recall petition against such an officer shall be certified within one year after he takes office nor within one year after a recall petition against him is defeated.

,ARTICLE 9. GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 9.01. ABOLITION OF CERTAIN OFFICES AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS.SECTION 9.02. RESERVED.SECTION 9.03. TORT LIABILITY.SECTION 9.04. SUPREMACY CLAUSE.SECTION 9.05. EXISTING FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS, AND LICENSES.SECTION 9.06. EFFECT OF THE CHARTER.SECTION 9.07. AMENDMENTS.SECTION 9.08. REVISIONS.SECTION 9.09. EFFECTIVE DATE.SECTION 9.10. COMMISSION AUDITOR.SECTION 9.01. ABOLITION OF CERTAIN OFFICES AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS.A.On May 1, 1958, the following offices are hereby abolished and the powers and functions of such offices are hereby transferred to the Mayor, who shall assume all the duties and functions of these offices required under the Constitution and general laws of this state: County Tax Collector, County Surveyor, County Purchasing Agent, and County Supervisor of Registration. The Mayor may delegate to a suitable person or persons the powers and functions of such offices. B.In the event that other elective officers are abolished by the Board, the Board shall provide that any person duly elected to such office shall if he so desires remain in the same or similar position and receive the same salary for the remainder of the term for which he was elected, and shall provide for the continuation of all duties and functions of these offices required under the Constitution and general laws. C.On November 9, 1966, the Office of Sheriff is hereby abolished and the powers and functions of such office are hereby transferred to the Mayor, who shall assume all the duties and functions of this office required under the Constitution and general laws of this state. The Mayor may delegate to a suitable person or persons the powers and functions of such office. SECTION 9.02. RESERVED.SECTION 9.03. TORT LIABILITY. The county shall be liable in actions of tort to the same extent that municipalities in the State of Florida are liable in actions in tort. However, no suit shall be maintained against the county for damages to persons or property or for wrongful death arising out of any tort unless written notice of claim shall first have been given to the county in the manner and within the time provided by ordinance, except that the time fixed by ordinance for notice shall be not less than 30 days nor more than 120 days. Note: Waiver of County's tort immunity held unconstitutional in Kaulakis v. Boyd, Fla. 1962,138 So.2d 505. SECTION 9.04. SUPREMACY CLAUSE.A.This Charter and the ordinances adopted hereunder shall in cases of conflict supersede all municipal charters and ordinances, except as herein provided, and where authorized by the Constitution, shall in cases of conflict supersede all special and general laws of the state. B.All other special and general laws and county ordinances and rules and regulations not inconsistent with this Charter shall continue in effect until they are superseded by ordinance adopted by the Board pursuant to this Charter and the Constitution. SECTION 9.05. EXISTING FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS, AND LICENSES. All lawful franchises, contracts, and licenses in force on the effective date of this Charter shall continue in effect until terminated or modified in accordance with their terms or in the manner provided by law or this Charter. SECTION 9.06. EFFECT OF THE CHARTER.A.This Charter shall be liberally construed in aid of its declared purpose, which is to establish effective home rule government in this county responsive to the people. If any Article, Section, subsection, sentence, clause, or provision of this Charter or the application thereof shall be held invalid for any reason, the remainder of the Charter and of any ordinances or regulations made thereunder shall remain in full force and effect. B.Nothing in this Charter shall be construed to limit or restrict the power and jurisdiction of the Florida Railroad and Public Utilities Commission. SECTION 9.07. AMENDMENTS.A.Amendments to this Charter may be proposed by a resolution adopted by the Board of County Commissioners or by petition of electors numbering not less than ten percent of the total number of electors registered in Dade County at the time the petition is submitted. An initiative petition to amend this Charter shall be submitted, together with proposed ballot language, to the Clerk of the Circuit Court, who shall without delay approve as to form a petition for circulation in one or several copies as the proposer may desire. Initiatory petitions shall be certified in the manner required for initiatory petitions for an ordinance. B.Amendments to this Charter may be proposed by initiatory petitions of electors. The Board of County Commissioners shall call a county wide election to be held in conjunction with the next scheduled general election after the date that a certified petition is presented to the County Commission. C.Amendments to this Charter may be proposed by the Board of County Commissioners at any time. Elections on charter amendments proposed by the Board shall be held in conjunction with the next scheduled general election after the Board adopts a resolution proposing any amendment. D.The result of all elections on charter amendments shall be determined by a majority of the electors voting on the proposed amendment. SECTION 9.08. REVISIONS. At least once in every 5 year period the Board shall review the Charter and determine whether or not there is a need for revision. If the Board determines that a revision is needed, it shall establish a procedure for the preparation of a proposed revision of the Charter. The proposed revision shall then be presented to the Board for review, modification and approval. If the Board approves such proposed revision, either with or without modification, it shall present such proposed revision to the electorate in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.07(C) and (D). Simultaneous elections may be held on a proposed revision and on individual amendments that are proposed. SECTION 9.09. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Charter shall become effective 60 days after it is ratified by a majority of the qualified electors of the county voting on the Charter. SECTION 9.10. COMMISSION AUDITOR. There is hereby created and established the Office of the Commission Auditor. The Commission Auditor, who shall be a certified public accountant, will be selected by the County Commission and shall report directly to the County Commission. The County Commission shall provide by ordinance for the specific functions and responsibilities of the Commission Auditor, which shall include but not be limited to providing the Commission with independent budgetary, audit, management, revenue forecasting, and fiscal analyses of commission policies, and county services and contracts.

,ARTICLE 10. NAME OF COUNTY

SECTION 10.01. NAME OF COUNTY.SECTION 10.01. NAME OF COUNTY.A.The name of Dade County shall officially be changed to Miami-Dade County and all references to Dade County in the Florida Constitution, Florida Statutes, Code of Metropolitan Dade County, federal law, case law and other legal documents, shall be deemed to be references to Miami-Dade County. B.The Commission shall by ordinance provide a method to implement the official name change. Note: Miami-Dade County Ordinance 97-212. This ordinance is codified in Section 1-4.2 in the Code of Ordinances and is recorded in the Official Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida at Book 17968, Page 0498.

,COMPARATIVE TABLE HOME RULE CHARTER

This table shows the location of the sections of the Home Rule Charter and any amendments thereto.(Rpld is abbreviation for repealed) COMPARATIVE TABLE ACTS OF STATE LEGISLATURE The following acts were repealed by Ord. No. 73-8 on February 6, 1973.Port Authority Act

,Chapter 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited.Sec. 1-2. Definitions.Sec. 1-3. Catchlines of sections.Sec. 1-4. Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.Sec. 1-4.1. Administrative amendments to Code; power of the County Attorney.Sec. 1-4.2. County name change.Sec. 1-4.3. Reorganization of County Administrative Departments.Sec. 1-4.4. Transfer of Delegated Authority from the County Manager to the County Mayor.Sec. 1-5. General penalty; compliance; civil liability; criminal liability; penalties.Sec. 1-6. [Laws of Florida, chapter 2000-312, section 10 nullified within the county.]Sec. 1-7. [Certain provisions not applicable to DEFGH program.]Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited. The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida" and may be so cited. Sec. 1-2. Definitions. In construing the provisions of this Code, where the context will permit and no definition is provided herein, the definitions provided in Section 1.01, Florida Statutes shall apply. (a)The word "County" shall mean the County of Dade in the State of Florida.(b)The words "County Commission" or "Board of County Commissioners" shall mean the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County, Florida, as constituted under and pursuant to the Home Rule Charter. (c)The words "Manager" or "County Manager" shall mean the County Manager of Dade County, Florida.(d) State. The words "the State" or "this State" shall be construed to mean the State of Florida. (e) Titles. Wherever reference is made to officials, boards, departments and similar official bodies of the county by title only, i.e. Director of Public Works, Tax Collector, etc., such title shall be construed as if the words "of Dade County, Florida" followed it. (f) Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present. (g) Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively. (h) Shall. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. (i) Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provisions imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. Sec. 1-3. Catchlines of sections. The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. Sec. 1-4. Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language. All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages. Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section ____________ of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida is hereby amended to read as follows: ____________ (Set out new provisions in full) ____________." When the County Commission desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the Commission desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section ____________. It is the intention of the County Commission, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida, and the sections of this ordinance may be re-numbered to accomplish such intention." All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be. Sec. 1-4.1. Administrative amendments to Code; power of the County Attorney. The Board of County Commissioners hereby authorizes the County Attorney to administratively amend, from time to time, the Code of Miami-Dade County solely for the purpose of conforming said ordinances to any change in numbering references to the State Constitution, State statutes, State rules and regulations and to the Miami-Dade County Code. Additionally, the Board of County Commissioners hereby authorizes the County Attorney to update the Code and County administrative regulations or rules to delete any provisions which, as a matter of law, have been preempted, and declared null and void by Section 790.33, Florida Statutes, as amended, entitled "Field of Regulation of Firearms and Ammunition Preempted." The County Attorney also is authorized to direct the codifier of the Code to notate any provision that, as a matter of law, has been preempted and declared null and void by Section 790.33, Florida Statutes, as amended. Except as provided in this section the County Attorney shall have no authority to administratively conform the Code wherein said amendments to the State Constitution, State statutes, State rules and regulations, and the Miami-Dade County Code substantively alter the provisions of the said Constitution, statutes, rules or regulations and/or Miami-Dade County Code provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where conflicts in language by error or omission are found between provisions of the Code as originally enacted and as recodified, the original Code provisions shall govern and the county attorney is authorized to administratively amend such conflicts, omissions or errors to conform the new recodified Code with the original Code. (Ord. No. 75-44, § 1, 6-4-75; Ord. No. 81-87, § 2, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 92-128, § 2, 10-27-92; Ord. No. 11-80, § 1, 10-18-11) Sec. 1-4.2. County name change.(a)"Miami-Dade County" is hereby recognized as the official name of Dade County, Florida.(b)All references to Dade County, Metropolitan Dade County or Metro-Dade County in the Florida Constitution, Florida Statutes, Code of Metropolitan Dade County, federal law, case law, court orders, regulations, public records, official county seal and logo, tax and special assessment rolls, and any and all other documents, papers, letters, maps, plats, books, tapes, photographs, films, sound recordings, data processing software, or other material, regardless of the physical form, characteristics, or means of transmission, shall deemed to be references to Miami-Dade County. This ordinance, and this section, shall apply to all such references without regard to whether they precede, are contemporary with, or occur subsequent to the effective date of this section. (c)The county remains the same political subdivision of the State of Florida as previously for all purposes and retains all rights, privileges, immunities, obligations and claims thereof unaffected by the change of name. (Ord. No. 97-212, §§ 1—3, 12-2-97) Sec. 1-4.3. Reorganization of County Administrative Departments.(a)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Enterprise Technology Services Department provided in all enactments of this Board including, but not limited to, ordinances, resolutions, implementing orders, regulations, rules, and provisions in the Code of Miami-Dade County ("Legislative Enactments") are hereby transferred to the Information Technology Department. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Enterprise Technology Services Department shall be deemed to be references to the Information Technology Department. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Director of the Enterprise Technology Services Department shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Information Technology Department or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (b)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Government Information Center provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Community Information and Outreach. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Government Information Center shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Community Information and Outreach. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Director of the Government Information Center shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Community Information and Outreach or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (c)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Departments of Building and Neighborhood Compliance, Planning and Zoning (except those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect the Office of Countywide Healthcare and Planning), Environmental Resources Management, Economic Development and International Trade, Small Business Development, Film and Entertainment, Sustainability, Consumer Services, Sustainability, Planning and Economic Enhancement and Permitting, Environment and Regulatory Affairs, provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources. Commencing October 1, 2012, the powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect the stormwater utility functions, including, but not limited to, the administration of the County's Floodplain Management Program, are hereby transferred from the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources to the Department of Public Works and Waste Management. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Departments of Building and Neighborhood Compliance, Planning and Zoning (except those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect the Office of Countywide Healthcare and Planning), Environmental Resources Management, Economic Development and International Trade, Small Business Development, Film and Entertainment, Sustainability, Consumer Services, Sustainability, Planning and Economic Enhancement and Permitting, Environment and Regulatory Affairs, shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources. Commencing October 1, 2012, the references to the Departments of Building and Neighborhood Compliance, Planning and Zoning (except those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect the Office of Countywide Healthcare and Planning), Environmental Resources Management, Economic Development and International Trade, Small Business Development, Film and Entertainment, Sustainability, Consumer Services, Sustainability, Planning and Economic Enhancement, Permitting, Environment and Regulatory Affairs, and Regulatory and Economic Resources that set forth, define or otherwise affect the stormwater utility functions, including, but not limited to, the administration of the County's Floodplain Management Program, shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Public Works and Waste Management. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Directors of the Departments of Building and Neighborhood Compliance, Planning and Zoning (except those delegations that set forth, define or otherwise affect the Office of Countywide Healthcare and Planning), Environmental Resources Management, Economic Development and International Trade, Small Business Development, Film and Entertainment, Sustainability, Consumer Services, Sustainability, Planning and Economic Enhancement and Permitting, Environment and Regulatory Affairs, shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee, except, commencing October 1, 2012, for those delegations that set forth, define or otherwise affect the stormwater utility functions, including, but not limited to, the administration of the County's Floodplain Management Program, which shall be deemed a delegation to the Director of the Department of Public Works and Waste Management, or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (d)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Community Action Agency and the Department of Human Services provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Community Action and Human Services. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Community Action Agency and the Department of Human Services shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Community Action and Human Services. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Directors of the Community Action Agency and Department of Human Services shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Community Action and Human Services or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (e)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Department of Emergency Management provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Fire Rescue. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Department of Emergency Management shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Fire Rescue. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Director of the Department of Emergency Management shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Fire Rescue or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (f)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Office of Americans with Disabilities Act Coordination and the Departments of General Services Administration (except for those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect infill housing), Procurement Management, Capital Improvement (except for those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect bond programs), and Human Resources provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Internal Services. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Office of Americans with Disabilities Act Coordination and the Departments of General Services Administration (except for those references that set forth, define or otherwise affect infill housing), Procurement Management, Capital Improvement (except for those references which set forth, define or otherwise affect bond programs), and Human Resources shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Internal Services. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Directors of the Office of Americans with Disabilities Act Coordination and the Departments of General Services Administration (except for those delegations which set forth, define or otherwise affect infill housing), Procurement Management, Capital Improvement (except for those delegations which set forth, define or otherwise relate to bond programs), and Human Resources shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Internal Services or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Director of the Department of Internal Services shall hold the powers and responsibilities of the personnel director as set forth in Section 5.05 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter. (g)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Departments of Strategic Budget Management, Grants Coordination, Planning and Zoning (only those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect Office of Countywide Healthcare Planning functions), and Capital Improvements (only insofar those powers, functions and responsibilities set forth, define or otherwise affect bond programs) provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Management and Budget. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Departments of Strategic Budget Management, Grants Coordination, Planning and Zoning (only those references that set forth, define or otherwise affect Office of Countywide Healthcare Planning functions) and Capital Improvements (only those references that set forth, define or otherwise affect bond programs) shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Management and Budget. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Director of the Departments of Strategic Budget Management, Grants Coordination, Planning and Zoning (only those delegations that set forth, define or otherwise affect Office of Countywide Healthcare Planning functions) and Capital Improvements (only those delegations that set forth, define or otherwise affect bond programs) shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Management and Budget, or at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (h)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Miami-Dade Public Housing Agency, General Services Administration (only those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect infill housing) and Department of Housing and Community development provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Miami-Dade Public Housing and Community Development. Commencing October 1, 2012, the powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect the Enterprise Zone Program, are hereby transferred from the Department of Public Housing and Community Development to the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Miami-Dade Public Housing Agency, General Services Administration (only those references that set forth, define or otherwise affect infill housing) and Department of Housing and Community Development shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Miami-Dade Public Housing and Community Development. Commencing October 1, 2012, the references relating to the Miami-Dade Public Housing Agency, General Services Administration (only those references that set forth, define or otherwise affect infill housing), the Department of Housing and Community Development and the Department of Miami-Dade Public Housing and Community Development that set forth, define or otherwise affect the Enterprise Zone Program, shall be deemed to be a reference to the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Directors of the Miami-Dade Public Housing Agency, General Services Administration (only those delegations that set forth, define or otherwise affect infill housing) and Department of Housing and Community Development shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Miami-Dade Public Housing and Community Development, or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee, except, commencing October 1, 2012, for those delegations which set forth, define or otherwise affect the Enterprise Zone Program, which shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources, or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (i)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Departments of Park and Recreation and Public Works (only those powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect Right-of-Way Aesthetic and Assets Management functions) provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Park, Recreation and Open Spaces. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Departments of Park and Recreation and Public Works (only those references that set forth, define or otherwise affect Right-of-Way Aesthetic and Assets Management functions) shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Park, Recreation and Open Spaces. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Directors of the Departments of Park and Recreation and Public Works (only those delegations that set forth, define or otherwise affect Right-of-Way Aesthetic and Assets Management functions) shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Park, Recreation and Open Spaces or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (j)The powers, functions and responsibilities of the Departments of Public Works and Solid Waste Management provided in Legislative Enactments are hereby transferred to the Department of Public Works and Waste Management. Commencing October 1, 2012, the powers, functions and responsibilities that set forth, define or otherwise affect platting, roadway concurrency management, land development and permitting functions, are hereby transferred from the Department of Public Works and Waste Management to the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources. All references in Legislative Enactments relating to the Departments of Public Works and Solid Waste Management shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Public Works and Waste Management. Commencing October 1, 2012, those references to the Departments of Public Works, Solid Waste Management and Public Works and Waste Management that set forth, define or otherwise affect platting, roadway concurrency management, land development and permitting functions, shall be deemed to be references to the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources. All delegations of Commission authority, power and responsibility to the Directors of the Departments of Public Works and Solid Waste Management shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Public Works and Waste Management, or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee, except, commencing October 1, 2012, for those delegations that set forth, define or otherwise affect platting, roadway concurrency management, land development and permitting functions, which shall be deemed to be a delegation to the Director of the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources or, at the County Mayor's discretion, to the County Mayor's designee. (k)Any delegation made by the County Mayor pursuant to this section shall be made in writing and shall become effective upon the filing of the delegation, or any amendment or modification thereto, with the Clerk of the Board, with a copy to the County Attorney and each Commissioner. The Clerk of the Board shall list such delegations on the agenda of the next available Commission meeting and such delegations shall be subject to disapproval by majority vote of those Commissioners present upon a motion made at such meeting. (l)Notwithstanding any provision of a Legislative Enactment to the contrary, the qualification and requirements of any Department Director set forth in any Legislative Enactment may be satisfied by a designee of the County Mayor who shall (a) report directly to the Department Director and (b) have primary responsibility for overseeing the functions of the Department related to such qualifications. The County Mayor shall report to the Board of County Commissioners in writing which qualifications of a Department Director, if any, will be satisfied by a designee of the Mayor at the time the Mayor presents the appointment of the Department Director to the Board pursuant to Section 2.02(D) of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter and Part 8.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the County Commission. (Ord. No. 11-70, § 12, 9-23-11; Ord. No. 11-72, § 11, 11-23-11; Ord. No. 11-74, § 6, 11-23-11; Ord. No. 12-38, § 4, 5-15-12; Ord. No. 12-70, § 11, 9-20-12; Ord. No. 12-72, § 11, 9-20-12; Ord. No. 12-74, § 6, 9-20-12) Sec. 1-4.4. Transfer of Delegated Authority from the County Manager to the County Mayor. Commencing with the elimination of the County Manager as a Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter County officer on November 20, 2012, all delegations of Board authority, power and responsibility to the County Manager provided in enactments of this Board including, but not limited to, ordinances, resolutions, implementing orders, regulations, rules, and provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County are hereby delegated to the County Mayor or the County Mayor's designee. All references in enactments of this Board including, but not limited to, ordinances, resolutions, implementing orders, regulations, rules, and provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County relating to the County Manager shall be deemed to be references to the County Mayor or the County Mayor's designee. (Ord. No. 12-94, § 1, 11-8-12) Sec. 1-5. General penalty; compliance; civil liability; criminal liability; penalties.(a)Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, any person violating any of the provisions of this Code shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction over the cause. Any person who violates or fails to comply with this Code shall also be subject to fines in accordance with Chapter 8CC of the Code of Miami-Dade County. Each day of violation or noncompliance shall constitute a separate offense. (b)Compliance with this Code is the responsibility of tenants, property owners and other responsible parties as herein established.(c)Any person who violates a provision of this Code or any lawful rule, regulation or written order promulgated under this Code is subject to injunction or other equitable relief to enforce compliance with or prohibit the violation of the Code. Further, such person is liable for any damage to Miami-Dade County caused by such violation, and for the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Miami-Dade County in enforcing the provisions of this Code, including but not limited to the costs of enforcement inspections, preparation of enforcement reports, photographs, title searches, postage and other demonstrable administrative costs for enforcement and collection. All such sums shall become immediately due and payable upon expenditure by the County and shall become delinquent if not paid within thirty (30) days after receipt by the violator of a department's bill itemizing the enforcement costs incurred in enforcing the provisions of this Code (the "due date"). All such delinquent sums shall bear interest at the rate of twelve (12) percent per annum. (d)Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, any person who violates a provision of this Code or any lawful rule, regulation or written order promulgated under this Code is subject to the judicial imposition of a civil penalty for each offense of an amount not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per offense. In assessing the penalty, the court may receive evidence in mitigation. Each day during any portion of which a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense. (e)Upon the rendition of a judgment or decree by any of the courts of this State against any person and in favor of a department or the County in any action to enforce compliance with or prohibit the violation of the provisions of this Code, the court shall adjudge or decree against that person and in favor of the department or the County a reasonable sum as fees or compensation for the attorney acting on behalf of the department or the County in the suit in which recovery is had. Such fees or compensation shall be included in the judgment or decree rendered in the case. This provision shall apply to all civil actions filed after the effective date of this ordinance. Cessation of the violation of any of the provisions of the Code prior to rendition of a judgment or prior to execution of a negotiated settlement, but after an action has been filed by the department or the County to enforce the provision of this Code, shall be deemed for the purposes of this section the functional equivalent of a confession of judgment or verdict in favor of the department or the County, for which attorney's fees shall be awarded as set forth in this section. (f)Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit or require the County to bring an action on behalf of any private person.(g)All the judicial and administrative remedies in this section are independent and cumulative. (Ord. No. 79-26, § 1, 4-3-79; Ord. No. 99-54, § 1, 5-25-99) Cross reference— Additional game time allowances for county prisoners, § 21-101 et seq. Sec. 1-6. [Laws of Florida, chapter 2000-312, section 10 nullified within the county.](a)This Board [of County Commissioners] finds that Section 10 of Chapter 2000-312 of the Laws of Florida is a special law applying to Miami-Dade County (or a general law applying only in Miami-Dade County) that is inconsistent with the common interest of the people of Miami-Dade County. (b)This Board in the exercise of the home rule powers vested in Miami-Dade County by Article VIII, Section 6 of the Florida Constitution of 1968 and the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter hereby supersedes and nullifies Section 10 of Chapter 2000-312 of the Laws of Florida. (c)This Board finds that the "governing board, agency, or authority that is wholly independent from the public health trust" created or required to be created by Section 10 of Chapter 2000-312 of the Laws of Florida is a board whose jurisdiction lies wholly within Miami-Dade County that is inconsistent with the common interest of the people of Miami-Dade County. (d)This Board in the exercise of the home rule powers vested in Miami-Dade County by Article VIII, Section 6 of the Florida Constitution of 1968 and the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter hereby abolishes the board, offices, and functions of the "governing board, agency, or authority" created or required to be created by Section 10 of Chapter 2000-312. (e)The County Attorney is authorized to prosecute or defend any lawsuits to ensure that the purpose and intent of this ordinance are fulfilled. (Ord. No. 00-111, §§ 2—6, 9-19-00) Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-111 did not specifically amend the Code, and its inclusion as section 1-6 was at the discretion of the editor. Sec. 1-7. [Certain provisions not applicable to DEFGH program.] Notwithstanding and prevailing over any other provision in the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida to the contrary. Administrative Order 3-2, Code Section 2-8.5 relating to local preference and Code Section 10-34 relating to listing of first-tier subcontractors shall not apply to contracts for construction of the DEFGH Program and such contracts shall be exempt from the requirements thereof. (Ord. No. 00-172, § 2, 12-7-00) Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-172 did not specifically amend the Code, and its inclusion as section 1-7 was at the discretion of the editor.

,Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION [1]



,Chapter 3 RESERVED [1]



,Chapter 4 AMBULANCES AND MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES [1]



,Chapter 5 ANIMALS AND FOWL [1]

Sec. 5-1. Definitions.Sec. 5-2. Enforcement.Sec. 5-3. Wild animals and reptiles.Sec. 5-4. Cruelty to animals.Sec. 5-5. Adoption of animals from the department; sterilization requirements; requirements for animal rescue organizations; authority to negotiate and enter into agreements.Sec. 5-6. Vaccination against rabies for dogs, cats, and ferrets.Sec. 5-7. License tags required for all dogs; conditions for issuance of tags.Sec. 5-8. Voluntary registration of cats.Sec. 5-9. Standards of care for kennels, pet dealers, and pet care centers.Sec. 5-10. Requirements for sales of dogs and cats.Sec. 5-11. Report and sale of license tags.Sec. 5-12. Additional restrictions on sales of animals.Sec. 5-13. Kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, and hobby breeder license requirements; appeal procedures.Sec. 5-14. Trapping of dogs and cats.Sec. 5-15. Transportation of animals.Sec. 5-16. Taking of peafowl prohibited.Sec. 5-17. Legislative intent.Sec. 5-17.1. Definition and identification of a pit bull dog.Sec. 5-17.2. Confinement of pit bull dogs.Sec. 5-17.3. Evidence of financial responsibility required to be maintained by owners of pit bull dogs.Sec. 5-17.4. Registration of pit bull dogs.Sec. 5-17.5. Enforcement.Sec. 5-17.6. Time for compliance.Sec. 5-17.7. Pit bull signs in veterinary offices, kennels, commercial breeders, commercial animal establishments, pet shops, and dog grooming businesses.Sec. 5-18. Impounding; animals found in distress; redeeming by owner; disposition of unredeemed animals.Sec. 5-19. Rabies quarantine; report of animal bites.Sec. 5-20. Regulations on dogs in public areas.Sec. 5-20.1. Confinement of intact female dog during estrus.Sec. 5-21. Tethering of dogs.Sec. 5-21.1. Dogs on rooftops.Sec. 5-22. Dangerous dogs; authority to designate dog as dangerous; confiscation; appeal procedures.Sec. 5-23. Additional regulations relating to dangerous dogs.Sec. 5-23.1. Aggressive dogs; authority to designate dog as aggressive; appeal procedures; additional regulations on aggressive dogs.Sec. 5-23.2. Irresponsible dog owners.Sec. 5-24. Euthanasia of injured and diseased animals, impounded animals, and abandoned animals.Sec. 5-25. Municipalities authorized to adopt additional regulations.Sec. 5-1. Definitions. As used in this chapter, unless otherwise provided, the following terms shall be defined as follows: (1) Animal means any non-human living creature, including without limitation dogs, cats, ferrets, rabbits, turtles, gerbils, hamsters, cows, horses, sheep, and other domestic animals or livestock. (2) Animal Control Officer means a person employed by the Department who meets the qualifications set forth in Section 828.27, Florida Statutes. Animal Control Officers shall be authorized to investigate, on public or private property, civil infractions relating to animal control or cruelty, to issue citations for violations of this chapter, and to assist in criminal investigations relating to animal control or cruelty. (3) Animal Rescue Organization means a humane society or other nonprofit organization that is: dedicated to the protection of animals; duly registered with the Florida Department of State and the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services; and properly organized as a charitable organization under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. (4) At large means off the responsible party's property, and not under the responsible party's physical custody and control. (5) Breeder means any person or entity that causes animals to reproduce. An establishment used for breeding, except for a hobby breeder as provided in this chapter, shall be regulated as a kennel. (6) Cat includes both male and female. (7) Control means the possession, ownership, care, or custody of animals. (8) Cruelty means any neglect or act of torture or torment that causes pain or suffering to an animal. (9) Department means the Miami-Dade County Animal Services Department. (10) Director means the Director of the Miami-Dade County Animal Services Department. (11) Dog includes both male and female. (12) Euthanasia technician means an employee or agent of the Department that is certified to euthanize animals in accordance with Section 828.058(4)(a), Florida Statutes. (13) Grooming means caring for the appearance and hygiene of an animal, including, without limitation, bathing, clipping, dipping, brushing, pedicure services, expressing anal glands, and ear cleaning. (14) Hobby breeder means a person or entity that is an active member of a national, state, or local breeder organization and that houses or breeds dogs or cats at or adjoining a private residence for the purpose of: improving the breed; exhibiting dogs or cats at shows operated by a national, state, or local breeder organization; or raising service animals or animals used for law enforcement or other types of work. A hobby breeder may sell two (2) litters of puppies or kittens per year per household, so long as the total number of dogs kept on the premises does not constitute a kennel as defined in this section. A hobby breeder that sells more than two litters per year per household shall be deemed to be a pet dealer. (15) Housing facility means the larger structure within which primary enclosures containing animals are stored. (16) Intact means that the animal has not been sterilized. (17) Kennel. The following uses shall constitute a kennel: (i)The keeping of any dog or dogs, regardless of number, for sale, breeding, boarding, or treatment purposes, except by a hobby breeder as defined in this chapter or, as provided by law, in a dog hospital, dog beauty parlor, pet care center, pet shop, dog racing establishment, governmental agency, laboratory, or facility housing animals for medical research that is approved by a federal agency; or (ii)The keeping of dogs, six (6) months of age or older, on premises used for residential purposes, in excess of the following numbers: (a) four (4) dogs on property that is less than 1 acre in gross area, or in any individual residence unit in a multifamily zoning district; (b) six (6) dogs on property that is at least 1 acre but less than 2 acres in gross area; and (c) eight (8) dogs on property that is 2 acres or more in gross area; or (iii)The keeping of more than four (4) guard dogs on vacant property or on property used for business or industrial purposes.(18) Kitten means a cat that is less than four (4) months old. (19) Official certificate of veterinary inspection means a legible certificate of veterinary inspection signed by the examining veterinarian licensed by the state of origin and accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture, that shows the age, sex, breed, color, and health record of the dog or cat, the printed or typed names and addresses of the person or business from whom the animal was obtained, the consignor or seller, the consignee or purchaser, and the examining veterinarian, and the veterinarian's license number. The official certificate of veterinary inspection must list all vaccines and deworming medications administered to the dog or cat, including the manufacturer, vaccine, type, lot number, expiration date, and the dates of administration thereof, and must state that the examining veterinarian warrants that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the animal has no sign of contagious or infectious diseases and has no evidence of internal or external parasites, including coccidiosis and ear mites, but excluding fleas and ticks. The official certificate shall be on a form prescribed by the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. (20) Person means an individual or a corporation, proprietorship, partnership, trust, association, or other legal entity. (21) Pet care center means an establishment, operating during daytime hours only, that provides supervised care for cats or dogs in an air-conditioned indoor facility for the purpose of the animal's general well-being, including supervised interaction with other cats or dogs, boarding, feeding, and grooming services. A pet care center shall not include breeding services. For purposes of this chapter, this classification shall include dog beauty parlors and mobile facilities that provide grooming services. (22) Pet dealer means any person that, in the ordinary course of business, engages in the sale to the public of more than two litters, or 20 dogs or cats, per year, whichever is greater. This classification shall include pet shops as well as breeders who sell directly to the consumer. Animal rescue organizations and hobby breeders shall be exempt from this classification. (23) Pet shop means a retail establishment that, in the ordinary course of business, engages in the sale of dogs or cats. (24) Primary enclosure means a structure where an animal is housed and maintained, including without limitation cages, pens, and runs. (25) Professional means to provide a product or service, in commerce, for compensation or profit. (26) Puppy means a dog that is less than six (6) months old. (27) Responsible party means any person owning, harboring, or having custody or control of an animal. Wherever the term "owner" is used in this chapter, it shall mean responsible party. (28) Sale means the transfer of ownership in exchange for compensation or profit, including money, goods, and services. This definition shall not include adoption fees charged by an animal rescue organization. (29) Service animal means an animal individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability (as defined in the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12102), including without limitation, guiding individuals with impaired vision, altering individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds, providing minimal protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair, or fetching dropped items. (30) Shelter means a structure, including without limitation a dog house or a stable, that protects an animal from sun, rain, and other inclement weather or environmental conditions. (31) Sterilize means to remove an animal's reproductive organs, whether by spaying or castration. (32) Structurally sound means that the physical condition of the structure meets the construction standards established by the applicable building code or the manufacturing industry. (33) Veterinarian means a person who is licensed to engage in the practice of veterinary medicine under Chapter 474, Florida Statutes, and is accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-2. Enforcement.(a)The provisions of this chapter shall apply in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County. The Department, through Miami-Dade County Animal Control Officers, shall be responsible for enforcing the sections of this chapter. County and municipal law enforcement officers shall also be authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter relating to cruelty to animals and confiscation of dangerous dogs and dogs subject to dangerous dog investigations. The Director shall have the authority to amend and modify the administration of the Department's operating procedures and to establish rules, procedures, and forms to carry out the Department's responsibilities pursuant to this chapter. (b)In addition to any other responsible party described in this chapter, the owner of any real property upon which any animal regulated herein is maintained, shall be responsible for that animal to the same extent as the responsible party. (c)It shall not constitute a trespass for Animal Control Officers, in the performance of their lawful duties, to enter with any necessary equipment upon any public or private property in Miami-Dade County, except a building designated for and used for residential purposes. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize an Animal Control Officer to enter upon private property without consent of the property owner or without a valid warrant where such warrant is required; provided, however, that an Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer may take custody of a neglected or mistreated animal as provided in Section 828.073, Florida Statutes. (d)It shall be unlawful to resist, obstruct, or oppose the Director or designee or any Animal Control Officer in the discharge of their duties under this chapter. (e)Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall, upon conviction thereof in the County Court, be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (f)Any person who violates or fails to comply with this chapter shall also be subject to civil penalties in accordance with Chapter 8CC of this Code. Each day of violation or noncompliance shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to any other surcharges provided in Chapter 8CC, a five dollar ($5.00) surcharge shall be added to each civil penalty provided for in this chapter; proceeds shall be used to pay the costs of training for animal control officers. Civil penalties imposed pursuant to this provision may be appealed in accordance with Chapter 8CC, or in accordance with any other procedure allowed by law; it is provided, however, that the filing of any appeal shall be deemed to be a waiver of any other available appeal. (g)Any person who violates a provision of this chapter or any lawful rule, regulation, or written order promulgated under this chapter is subject to injunction or other equitable relief to enforce compliance with or prohibit the violation of this chapter. Further, such person is liable for any damage to Miami-Dade County caused by such violation, and for the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Miami-Dade County in enforcing the provisions of this chapter, including but not limited to the costs of enforcement inspections, preparation of enforcement reports, attorney's fees, photographs, title searches, postage, and other demonstrable administrative costs for enforcement and collection. All such sums shall become immediately due and payable upon expenditure by the County and shall become delinquent if not paid within thirty (30) days after receipt by the violator of the Department's bill itemizing the enforcement costs incurred in enforcing the provisions of this chapter (the "due date"). All such delinquent sums shall bear interest at the rate of twelve (12) percent per annum. (h)In addition to the foregoing, any person who violates a provision of this chapter or any lawful rule, regulation, or written order promulgated under this chapter is subject to the judicial imposition of a civil penalty for each offense of an amount not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense, except that violations of Sections 5-22 and 5-23 of this chapter, related to dangerous dogs, are subject to the judicial imposition of a civil penalty for each offense of an amount not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per offense. In assessing the penalty, the court may receive evidence in mitigation. Each day during any portion of which a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense. (i)Upon the rendition of a judgment or decree by any of the courts of this State against any person and in favor of the Director or the County in any action to enforce compliance with or prohibit the violation of the provisions of this chapter, the court shall adjudge or decree against that person and in favor of the Director or the County a reasonable sum as fees or compensation for the attorney acting on behalf of the Director or the County in the suit in which recovery is had. Such fees or compensation shall be included in the judgment or decree rendered in the case. This provision shall apply to all civil actions filed after the effective date of this ordinance. Cessation of the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter prior to rendition of a judgment or prior to execution of a negotiated settlement, but after an action has been filed by the Director or the County to enforce the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed for the purposes of this section the functional equivalent of a confession of judgment or verdict in favor of the Director or the County, for which attorney's fees shall be awarded as set forth in this section. (j)The Director is hereby authorized to institute actions on behalf of the County in any court of competent jurisdiction in this State to seek enforcement of this chapter and all remedies for violations thereof. (k)The Director or designee may, in his or her discretion, terminate an investigation or an action commenced under the provisions of this chapter upon execution of a written consent agreement between the Director or designee and the persons who are the subject of the investigation or action. The consent agreement shall provide written assurance of voluntary compliance with all the applicable provisions of this chapter by such persons. The consent agreement may in addition provide for the following: Mitigation of injuries accruing on account of the violation investigated or sued upon; compensatory damages; punitive damages; civil penalties; costs and expenses of enforcement; attorneys' fees; and remedial or corrective action. Except as expressly and specifically provided in the executed written consent agreement, an executed written consent agreement shall neither be evidence of a prior violation of this chapter nor shall such agreement be deemed to impose any limitation or action by the Director or the County in enforcing any of the provisions of this chapter, nor shall the agreement constitute a waiver of or limitation upon the enforcement of any federal, state, or local law or ordinance. Each violation of any of the terms of an executed written consent agreement shall constitute a separate violation under this chapter by the persons who executed the agreement and by their respective officers, directors, agents, servants, employees, attorneys, heirs, successors and assigns, and by any persons in active concert or participation with any of the foregoing persons and who have received actual notice of the consent agreement. Each day during any portion of which each such violation occurs constitutes a separate offense under this chapter. (l)Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit or require the Director to bring an action on behalf of any private person.(m)Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect the powers and duties of: the Department of Planning and Zoning to enforce Chapter 33 of this Code; municipal zoning authorities to enforce municipal zoning regulations; or the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission to regulate animals subject to Chapter 372, Florida Statutes, including without limitation wild animals, birds, freshwater organisms, marine life, fur-bearing animals, and reptiles. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 12-80, § 1, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-3. Wild animals and reptiles.(a)It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, maintain, or have custody or control of any wild animal, bird, freshwater organism, marine life, fur-bearing animal, or reptile without first complying with the provisions of Chapter 372, Florida Statutes, and all regulations promulgated by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. (b)Wolf-hybrids that are 25% or less domestic dog are considered wild animals subject to the regulations promulgated by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. Wolf-hybrids not regulated by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission shall be regulated as dogs in accordance with this chapter. It is provided, however, that no wolf-hybrid that is 50% or less domestic dog may be bred, sold, or purchased in Miami-Dade County. "Wolf-Hybrid" shall mean any domestic dog with genetic makeup from a wolf in its inheritance, as the result of breeding between a dog and a wolf. In determining whether an animal is subject to the provisions of this section, the Department shall rely on genetic tests, expert opinions, or other reliable evidence. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-4. Cruelty to animals.(a) Legislative intent. It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida, to provide an orderly and consolidated procedure wherein cruelty to animals may be corrected and the animals protected. (b) Acts deemed cruelty to animals. It shall be unlawful to commit any act that constitutes cruelty to animals. The following acts shall be deemed cruelty to animals (see Sections 828.12, 828.13 and 828.16, Florida Statutes): (1)To torture, torment, mutilate, kill, or unnecessarily overdrive any animal or to cause the same to be done.(1.1)To engage in animal fighting, including, without limitation, dog fighting or cock fighting. For purposes of this section, to be engaged in animal fighting means to instigate, promote, assist, hold, manage, stage, conduct, be employed in connection with, be present for the preparation of, provide an animal for, allow one's own real or personal property to be used for, gamble on, be a spectator at, or profit from an exhibition, contest, or event featuring the fighting of an animal with another animal during which an animal may be injured, maimed, or killed. (2)To intentionally commit an act to any animal which results in the cruel death of the animal, or the excessive or repeated infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering to the animal, or to cause the same to be done. Note—Florida Statutes § 790.33, as amended, preempts and declares null and void all local ordinances, administrative regulations and rules in the field of firearms and ammunition, with limited exceptions set forth in § 790.33, as amended. (3)To deprive an animal of necessary sustenance, whether by neglect or refusal. For purposes of this section, "necessary sustenance" means: food and water that is of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the minimal daily requirements for the condition and size of the animal as set forth by the commercial food industry or by a licensed veterinarian; food and water that is free of contaminants and vermin and insect infestation; and proper medical attention for any illness, injury, infection, skin disorder, and internal parasite. Feeding a cow on feed that produces impure or unwholesome milk shall be deemed to be a violation of this section. (4)To deprive an animal of shelter.(5)To impound or confine an animal in any place and during such confinement: to fail to supply the animal with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water; to fail to provide the animal with wholesome exercise and change of air; to keep the animal in an enclosure that does not permit the animal to make normal postural movements; to keep the animal in an enclosure that contains excess excreta. Enclosing an animal in a vehicle without adequate ventilation shall be deemed to be a violation of this provision. (6)For a responsible party to abandon an animal in a street or other public place, or to abandon an animal if it is maimed, infirm, or diseased. For purposes of this section, "abandon" means to forsake an animal for which one is responsible without providing for its care, necessary sustenance, protection, and shelter. (7)If an animal is known to have or to have been exposed to a contagious or infectious disease: to transfer possession of such animal without first disclosing the condition of the animal to the person to whom the animal is transferred; to knowingly permit such animal to run at large; or to knowingly permit such animal to come into contact with any animal of another person without the other person's knowledge or permission. (8)To transfer or offer to transfer ownership of any live animal as a prize in any game, drawing, sweepstakes or other promotion.(9)To intentionally trip, fell, rope, or lasso the legs of a horse by any means for the purpose of entertainment or sport. As used in this subsection, "trip" means any act that consists of the use of any wire, pole, stick, rope, or other apparatus to cause a horse to fall or lose its balance, and "horse" means any animal of any registered breed of the genus Equus, or any recognized hybrid thereof. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply when tripping is used: (i)To control a horse that is posing an immediate threat to other livestock or human beings;(ii)For the purpose of identifying ownership of the horse when its ownership is unknown; or(iii)For the purpose of administering veterinary care to the horse.(c) Enforcement. (1)Whenever any person complains of cruelty to animals or upon independent observation of an Animal Control Officer, an Animal Control Officer will attempt to ascertain and investigate whether the facts alleged in the complaint or observation constitute an act of cruelty to animals. Nothing contained herein shall authorize an Animal Control Officer to enter upon private property without consent of the property owner or without a valid warrant where such warrant is required; provided, however, that an Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer may take custody of a neglected or mistreated animal as provided in Section 828.073, Florida Statutes. (2)If the Animal Control Officer has reason to believe, subsequent to his investigation, that an act of cruelty to animals may have been committed, the Department will immediately institute appropriate proceedings against the person responsible for the act of cruelty, issue the appropriate civil violation notice, and/or, where appropriate, seek custody of the animal as provided in Section 828.073, Florida Statutes. Nothing herein contained shall restrict a private citizen from instituting an appropriate proceeding pursuant to the Florida Statutes. Nothing contained in this section shall restrict enforcement by criminal penalty pursuant to Chapter 828, Florida Statutes. (3)Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8CC-4 governing the penalties for repeat or continuing violations, for enforcement by civil penalty in accordance with Chapter 8CC of this code, a second violation of this section shall carry a civil penalty of 2.5 times the penalty listed in Section 8CC-10, a third violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3 times the listed penalty, and each subsequent violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3.5 times the listed penalty. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 12-77, § 1, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-5. Adoption of animals from the department; sterilization requirements; requirements for animal rescue organizations; authority to negotiate and enter into agreements.(a)The Department shall encourage the adoption of animals in its custody. The Department may charge fees for transferring ownership of such animals and for vaccination, sterilization, and other medical care provided to such animals. Fees shall be fixed by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners, provided that animal rescue organizations and other adopters acquiring ownership of animals may be charged reduced fees in accordance with this section. (b)Prior to transferring ownership of a dog or cat to any person, the Department shall sterilize the animal, except that the Department may release unsterilized animals in either of the following circumstances. (1)The new owner enters into a written agreement guaranteeing that sterilization will be performed within thirty (30) days from the date custody is acquired or as soon as sterilization is medically permissible. Breach of the agreement shall be a separate violation of this section. A person acquiring ownership of an intact dog or cat from the Department shall also give the Department a sufficient, refundable deposit per animal to ensure that the animal will be sterilized, as required by Section 823.15, Florida Statutes. The Department shall refund the deposit upon presentation of written evidence by the veterinarian performing the sterilization that the animal has been sterilized. The amount of the deposit shall be established by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (2)The Department may, at its sole discretion, transfer unsterilized animals to animal rescue organizations that comply with the requirements set forth in subsection (c). (c)The Department may, at its discretion, transfer animals to an animal rescue organization for medical care, for adoption, for adoption to third parties, or for any other lawful purpose, in accordance with the following provisions: (1)The animal rescue organization shall be registered with the Department and shall provide proof that it is duly registered with the Florida Department of State and the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services and properly organized as a charitable organization under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. (2)The animal rescue organization shall enter into a written agreement signed by the Director and approved by the County Attorney's Office as to form and legal sufficiency that provides for the following: a guarantee that the organization will comply with the sterilization requirements set forth in Section 823.15(2)(b), Florida Statutes; a requirement that the organization periodically report to the Department on the disposition of animals acquired from the Department; and that the Department shall have the right to reclaim animals that are being maintained in violation of this chapter or other provisions of this Code. Breach of the agreement shall be a separate violation of this section. (3)In deciding whether to transfer animals to an animal rescue organization, the Director may consider, among other factors:(i)The resources of the organization to care for animals.(ii)The facilities where the animals will be kept.(iii)The prior experience of the organization or its members or agents in the field of animal care.(iv)Whether the organization or its members or agents are, or have previously been found to be, operating in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, of any federal, state, or local laws governing public health or sanitation, or of the applicable zoning code governing the keeping of animals. (v)Any additional burdens on the Department for partnering with the organization.(d) [Authority.] The Director is hereby delegated the authority to negotiate and enter into agreements, which require no expenditure of additional funds by the County, with other persons to encourage the adoption of animals or to provide for animals in the custody of the Department. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 12-80, § 2, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-6. Vaccination against rabies for dogs, cats, and ferrets.(a)All dogs, cats, and ferrets that are four (4) months of age or older shall be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian against rabies with a vaccine that is licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture for use in that species. Every owner of a dog, cat, or ferret shall have the animal revaccinated 12 months after the initial vaccination. Thereafter, the interval between vaccinations shall conform to the vaccine manufacturer's directions. The cost of vaccination shall be borne by the animal's owner. (b)Evidence of vaccination shall consist of an official certificate prescribed for that purpose by the State of Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, and signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine. The certificate in triplicate shall show: (1)The date and type of vaccination;(2)The name and address of the owner;(3)For dogs and cats, the breed, age, color, and sex, and the year and serial number of the registration tag, if applicable; and (4)The microchip number, if applicable, and other pertinent data for proper identification of the dog, cat, or ferret. The original certificate shall be given to the owner, one (1) copy shall be filed by the veterinarian with the Animal Services Department, and one (1) copy shall be retained by the veterinarian. Evidence of circulating rabies-virus-neutralizing antibodies shall not be used as a substitute for current vaccination in managing rabies exposure or determining the need for booster vaccinations. (c)A dog, cat, or ferret shall be exempt from vaccination against rabies where a licensed veterinarian has examined the animal and signed a written certificate stating that at such time vaccination would endanger the animal's health because of its age, infirmity, debility, or other medical consideration. The certificate shall state the period of exemption from the vaccination requirement and shall not be valid for more than twelve (12) months from date of issuance. Postmarked no later than the tenth day of each month, all veterinarians providing such certificates shall, as to each dog certified, deliver to the Department one (1) copy of the certificate prepared the previous month. An exempt animal shall be vaccinated against rabies as soon as its health permits. (d)It shall be a violation of this section to fail to timely vaccinate or revaccinate an animal.(1)The Department may issue a courtesy notice before the animal is due for vaccination or revaccination. It is provided, however, that issuance of a courtesy notice shall not be deemed to be a prerequisite to enforcement of the provisions of this section. (2)If an animal has been untimely revaccinated, the due date of the next rabies revaccination shall be based on the date of the untimely revaccination. (f)Exemptions. This section shall not apply to greyhounds kept, maintained, or brought into the County for the purpose of racing at licensed greyhound tracks, or to animals used as part of entertainment acts when properly controlled, or to animals that remain in the County for a period of less than thirty (30) days. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-7. License tags required for all dogs; conditions for issuance of tags.(a)Every person owning, keeping, or harboring any dog over four (4) months of age within Miami-Dade County, Florida, or bringing any dog over four (4) months of age into this County shall, within thirty (30) days of the dog entering this County, register the dog with the Department and obtain a license tag, which the dog shall wear at all times. (b)The Department shall require, as a prerequisite to the issuance of a license tag for any dog, satisfactory proof that such dog has been vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the provisions of Section 5-6. The official certificate prescribed pursuant to Section 5-6 shall be accepted as conclusive evidence as to the fact and time of vaccination, or a certificate providing that vaccination for rabies would endanger the health of the particular dog, as provided by Section 5-6 of this chapter, may be accepted. (c)Each license tag shall be renewed annually by the anniversary of the dog's most recent rabies vaccination, even if the rabies vaccination is effective for more than one year; it is provided, however, that the Department may issue a multi-year license tag that is valid for the duration of a multi-year rabies vaccination, and such license tag shall not require renewal until the revaccination is due. If the dog is not timely revaccinated, and the license tag not timely renewed, then the responsible party shall be subject to civil penalties in accordance with this chapter, but thereafter the due date for the renewal of the license tag shall be the anniversary of the untimely revaccination. (d)License fees shall be established by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners based on the following categories: (1)Sterilized dog 12 months old or more;(2)Intact dog 12 months old or more;(3)Dog between 4 months old and 12 months old ("Junior tag");(4)Dog less than 4 months old ("Puppy tag"), which shall be provided free of charge;(5)Dog owned by an indigent person as defined by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners; and(6)Replacement for a lost or damaged license tag.(7)Service animals and working police dogs and fire rescue dogs shall be exempt from license fees.(e)It shall be a violation of this section to fail to timely register a dog, to fail to timely obtain or renew a license tag, or to fail to have the dog wear the license tag. (1)The Department may issue a courtesy notice before the dog is due for registration or the license tag is due for renewal. It is provided, however, that issuance of a courtesy notice shall not be deemed to be a prerequisite to enforcement of the provisions of this section. (2)Any person who is fined under this section for an intact dog may have the penalty reduced to the level of a sterilized dog by having the dog sterilized within thirty (30) days of receipt of the civil violation notice. (3)Any indigent person who obtained a Department-issued license tag at a reduced fee prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall be deemed to have complied with the registration and licensing requirements of this section until the expiration of that license tag. (f)Exemptions. This section shall not apply to greyhounds kept, maintained or brought into the County for the purpose of racing at licensed greyhound tracks, or to dogs used as part of entertainment acts when properly controlled, or to dogs that remain in the County for a period of less than thirty (30) days. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 09-16, § 1, 3-3-09) Sec. 5-8. Voluntary registration of cats. The Director is hereby authorized to establish a voluntary cat registration program. The Department shall require, as a prerequisite to the issuance of a registration tag for any cat, satisfactory proof that such cat has been vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the provisions of Section 5-6 of this chapter. The official certificate prescribed pursuant to Section 5-6, or a certificate of a qualified veterinarian certifying that inoculation for rabies would endanger the health of the particular cat, as provided by Section 5-6 of this chapter, may be accepted. Upon payment of the fee prescribed herein, a registration tag shall be issued to each cat owner for each cat, said tag to be worn at all times by the cat for which issued, unless the cat owner chooses to have the registration number tattooed on the inner thigh of the cat or to have the cat implanted with a microchip, which shall be registered with the applicable national registry as well as the Department. A record of the name and address of the cat owner and a description of the cat, as well as the registration number, microchip number, and other identifying information assigned thereto, shall be maintained by the Department on each cat registration, and such other information that the Director may deem proper. The registration fee shall be established by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Registration shall be valid for the life of the cat. The fee may be reduced by one-half if a certificate that the cat has been sterilized is presented upon application for registration hereunder. There shall be a fee established by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners for the duplication of a lost cat tag. Registration of cats shall be voluntary, and this section does not require a cat owner to purchase a tag as provided hereunder. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-9. Standards of care for kennels, pet dealers, and pet care centers. In addition to complying with the provisions of Section 5-4 of this Code regarding cruelty to animals, all kennels, pet dealers, and pet care centers, including providers of mobile grooming services, located in or engaging in business in Miami-Dade County shall comply with the following minimum standards for the care of animals: (a) Housing facilities. Indoor and outdoor housing facilities for animals shall be maintained so as to contain the animal on the property at all times and to protect the animal from injury. (b) Storage of food. Supplies of food shall be stored in sealed containers or other containers which protect the food against insect and vermin infestation and contamination. Refrigeration shall be provided where necessary to prevent the spoiling of food. (c) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities for animals shall be ventilated with fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, fans, or air-conditioning to provide for the animals' health, comfort and well-being and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture condensation. Ambient temperature in an indoor housing facility shall be maintained between fifty (50) degrees and eighty-five (85) degrees Fahrenheit. (d) Primary enclosures. All primary enclosures for animals shall conform to the following minimum requirements, except where indicated otherwise in writing by a licensed veterinarian for medical reasons. (1)Primary enclosures shall be structurally sound and constructed so as to permit the animal within them to remain dry.(2)The floors of the primary enclosure that are not a solid surface shall be of an open-weave construction, where the openings are smaller than the size of the flattened foot of the animal contained inside. The solid surface of the mesh which the floor is made shall be not less than one-fourth (¼) inch wide in diameter. Where the floor of the primary enclosure is a solid surface, newspaper or a receptacle containing litter shall be provided to contain excreta. (3)Primary enclosures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not have sharp points or edges that could injure an animal.(4)Separation. The following restrictions apply to primary enclosures that house multiple dogs and cats:(i)Intact females in heat (estrus) shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with males, except for breeding purposes.(ii)Puppies or kittens shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with adult dogs or cats other than their dams or surrogate dams. (iii)Dogs shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with cats, nor shall dogs or cats be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other species of animal. (e) Sanitation. Housing facilities shall be cleaned at least daily. Primary enclosures, including top, sides, floor, grate, and door, shall be cleaned with soap and disinfectant at least daily. Pet care centers shall clean each primary enclosure after each animal occupant departs for the day. (f) Quarantine. Animals under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease shall be housed according to generally accepted veterinary medical requirements, except that a pet care center shall not accept any animal that has a known or suspected communicable or infectious disease. (g) Records and medical release forms. For all animals currently on the premises, records identifying the animal, including any license tag information, and containing the owner's name, address, and emergency telephone number shall be maintained. Pet care centers, kennels, and pet dealers keeping an animal that is the property of a third party shall also obtain from the owner of each animal a medical emergency release form providing that emergency treatment may be provided if the animal shows signs of illness or is injured while in the care and custody of the pet care center, kennel, or pet dealer. The medical release form shall include the owner's name, address, emergency telephone number, veterinarian, and veterinarian's telephone number. (h) Grooming. Where grooming services are provided: (1)Clippers, combs, brushes and any other grooming equipment shall be disinfected after each animal.(2)Clean, separate drying towels shall be used for each animal.(3)Grooming bathtubs shall be cleaned with soap and disinfectant and rinsed after each animal and shall be maintained free of mold and mildew. (4)All grooming equipment shall be maintained in good repair.(i)County-operated or City-operated animal control agencies shall be exempt from this section. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 12-80, § 3, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-10. Requirements for sales of dogs and cats.(a)Before a dog is offered for sale it shall receive from a veterinarian vaccines and anthelmintics against the following diseases and internal parasites: (1)Canine distemper.(2)Leptospirosis.(3)Bordetella (which shall be administered in the State of Florida once before sale by intranasal inoculation or by an alternative method of administration if deemed necessary by the attending veterinarian and noted on the official certificate of veterinary inspection). (4)Parainfluenza.(5)Hepatitis.(6)Canine parvo.(7)Rabies, if the dog is four (4) months of age or older and the inoculation is administered by a veterinarian.(8)Roundworm.(9)Hookworm.(10)Whipworm. Each dog over six (6) months of age shall be tested for heartworm before being offered for sale. (b)Before a cat is offered for sale it shall receive from a veterinarian vaccines and anthelmintics against the following diseases and internal parasites: (1)Panleukopenia.(2)Feline viral rhinotracheitis.(3)Calici virus.(4)Rabies, if the cat is four (4) months of age or older and the inoculation is administered by a veterinarian.(5)Hookworm.(6)Roundworm. Each cat shall also be tested for feline leukemia virus and feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) before being offered for sale. (c)The tests, vaccines, and anthelmintics shall be administered prior to the dog or cat being offered for sale, unless a veterinarian certifies on the official certification of veterinary inspection that to vaccinate or deworm the dog or cat is not in the best medical interest of the dog or cat, in which case the vaccine or anthelmintic may not be administered to that particular dog or cat. (d)If the dog or cat is under four (4) months of age, the tests, vaccines, and anthelmintics required by this section shall be administered no more than twenty-one (21) days before sale within the County. If the dog or cat is four (4) months of age or older, the tests, vaccines, and anthelmintics required by this section shall be administered at or after three (3) months of age, but no more than one (1) year before the sale. (e)All dogs and cats sold in the County shall have a microchip implanted prior to sale. The seller shall register the microchip with the national registry associated with the microchip and shall provide the microchip number and other identifying information to the Department. The seller shall also notify the Department and the applicable national registry within 48 hours of the sale of the dog or cat and shall provide the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner of the dog or cat. (f)Each dog and cat shall be accompanied by an original current official certificate of veterinary inspection at all times while being offered for sale within the County. The buyer shall receive the original certificate. Copies of these certificates shall be held by the seller and the veterinarian for a period of three (3) years. (g)The examination of each dog and cat by a veterinarian shall take place no more than thirty (30) days before the sale within the County. (h)No person may offer to sell or transfer any dog or cat that is less than eight (8) weeks of age.(i)County-operated or City-operated animal control agencies and animal rescue organizations shall be exempt from the requirements of this section. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-11. Report and sale of license tags.(a)Legislative intent. This section utilizes the authority and powers of Miami-Dade County in order to secure for the citizens of this County the protection of their health, safety and welfare. It is applicable to all practicing licensed veterinarians and pet dealers. This section is designed to regulate veterinarians by requiring that license tags be available for purchase at the time and place of vaccination of a dog against rabies, and that a report be forwarded to the Department containing the names of persons refusing to purchase these license tags. This section further requires that license tags be available for purchase by the dog owner at the time and place of sale or transfer of a dog, and that puppy tags be sold with every pupply sold or transferred. These measures are intended to ensure that the County has the necessary information and capital resources to enforce the County's already existing licensing ordinance. The unique history and lack of success with other measures attempted at controlling stray dogs and enforcing the licensing ordinance have been determined to require the special regulations and provisions contained within this section which the County Commission hereby finds reasonable and necessary. (b)Postmarked no later than the tenth day of each month, all veterinarians administering rabies vaccinations shall, as to each dog vaccinated, deliver to the Department one (1) copy of the certificate prescribed under Section 5-6 as evidence of each vaccination administered the previous month. (c)It shall be the duty of all veterinarians, upon vaccinating a dog against rabies, to have Miami-Dade County license tags required by Section 5-7 available for purchase at the time and place of vaccination. All veterinarians shall also have Miami-Dade County license tags available for purchase, at the time and place of presentation, by a responsible party who presents evidence to the veterinarian that the party's dog has a current rabies vaccination. (d)All pet dealers who sell dogs shall have Miami-Dade County license tags required by Section 5-7 available for purchase at the time and place a dog is sold. Pet dealers who sell dogs that are less than 4 months old shall provide puppy tags free of charge. (e)Veterinarians and pet dealers who sell Miami-Dade County license tags may collect as payment for each tag no more than the value of the tag as established by Miami-Dade County, and a maximum premium of twenty (20) percent of the value of the tag, except that puppy tags shall be provided free of charge. Veterinarians and pet dealers shall be responsible for the value of all tags held by them for sale to dog owners. (f)Postmarked no later than the tenth day of each month, each veterinarian and pet dealer shall deliver to the Department one (1) payment containing the value of any and all license tags sold or lost, destroyed, or stolen the previous month. Along with each month's remittance, each veterinarian and pet dealer shall submit to the Department documentation to be provided by Miami-Dade County covering all tags sold, lost, destroyed, or stolen, and shall submit all registration information for all puppy tags provided the previous month. The Department shall have the authority to assess interest for any payments received after the deadline established in this section. (g)All veterinarians and pet dealers shall provide all persons who obtain a dog from them or who bring a dog to them for vaccination against rabies with literature, prepared by Miami-Dade County for this purpose, stating that Miami-Dade County law requires that every dog be vaccinated against rabies and that every dog wear a license tag that must be renewed annually. (h)Violations of the requirements of this section shall subject the veterinarian or pet dealer to civil penalties, except when such requirement would violate a confidential doctor-client relationship. (i)The Director may authorize animal rescue organizations approved by the Department to sell license tags, but an animal rescue organization that chooses to sell license tags shall comply with this section. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 09-16, § 1, 3-3-09) Sec. 5-12. Additional restrictions on sales of animals.(a)It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, or otherwise transfer within the County any dyed or artificially colored rabbit or other animal, baby chicken, duckling or other fowl. (b)It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, or otherwise transfer a live turtle except where adequate bacteriological proof is submitted to the Miami-Dade County Department of Public Health that such turtles are free from salmonella contamination. Adequate bacteriological proof as used herein shall consist of a statement issued by the chief public health official of the State from which the lot of turtles is shipped certifying that the turtles have been found free of salmonella based upon laboratory examination, and stating the examinations upon which the statement is based. Such certificates shall accompany and be provided to the dealer of any turtle to be sold from an approved lot. The Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Public Health may, in addition thereto, withhold approval of any lot of turtles whether certified or not, until a series of at least six (6) consecutive cultures taken at intervals of not less than one (1) week have been found negative for salmonella in a laboratory approved for this purpose by the Miami-Dade County Department of Public Health. The results of such examinations shall be submitted on a form to be provided by the Miami-Dade County Department of Public Health. The Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Public Health or his duly authorized representative may at any time take samples of tank water or any other appropriate samples from turtles offered for sale and order the immediate euthanasia or transshipment of any lot of turtles found contaminated with salmonella. (c)The following warning shall be posted conspicuously at every display of turtles for retail sale: CAUTION. Turtles may transmit bacteria causing disease in humans. It is important to wash the hands thoroughly after handling turtles or material in a turtle bowl; not to allow water or any other substance from a turtle bowl to come into contact with your food or areas where your food is prepared; and to make sure that these precautions are followed by children or others handling turtles. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-13. Kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, and hobby breeder license requirements; appeal procedures.(a)No person shall act as or perform services as a kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, or hobby breeder in Miami-Dade County without first obtaining the applicable license from the Department. No person may keep, maintain, or otherwise harbor the number of dogs set forth in Section 5-1(17) of this chapter without first obtaining a kennel license as provided in this section; hobby breeders shall be subject to this requirement. Hobby breeders who sell more than two litters per year per household shall be deemed to be pet dealers and shall be regulated as such for purposes of this chapter. (b)A separate license shall be required for each location that the services of a kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, or hobby breeder are being performed, provided that, if multiple services are offered at the same location, only one license shall be required for that location. No license shall be issued unless the subject location is zoned or approved for that use by Chapter 33 of this Code or by the applicable municipal zoning code. (c)Application for a license shall be on a form prescribed by the Director for a kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, or hobby breeder, respectively. (d)Terms of licenses. Each license for a kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, or hobby breeder shall be renewed annually. All licenses shall expire on September 30 of each year. Each licensee shall be responsible for renewing his license on or before October first of each year as long as the kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, or hobby breeder operates in Miami-Dade County. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person who validly registered as a hobby breeder with Miami-Dade County prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall not be required to annually renew the hobby breeder license or to pay any additional license fee; it is provided, however, that such person shall otherwise comply with the requirements of this section. (e)Licenses shall not be transferable.(f)The license fee for each type of license shall be established by implementing order approved by the Board of the County Commissioners. Animal control agencies operated by a municipality that are subject to this section shall be registered with the Department but shall be exempt from license fees. (g)Premises on which animals are kept and records required to be maintained shall be subject to inspection by the Department for compliance with this chapter. (1)Hobby breeders shall not be subject to the requirements of Section 5-9 of this chapter. It is provided, however, that upon request from the Department, hobby breeders shall provide records demonstrating that they have not exceeded the sales limit of two litters per year per household. In addition, upon receipt of a complaint, the Department may inspect the premises on which a hobby breeder maintains animals for compliance with Section 5-4 of this chapter. (h)The Director may deny, suspend, or revoke a license or renewal where the applicant/licensee:(1)Has refused to allow the Department to inspect the premises on which animals are kept, the mobile unit in which services are provided to animals, or the records required to be maintained by this chapter or by state law, provided that the first such refusal shall result in suspension of the license until inspection is allowed; (2)Has outstanding unpaid fines for violations of this chapter;(3)Has been found guilty of repeat violations of this chapter;(4)Has been found guilty of animal cruelty or neglect under this chapter, Chapter 828, Florida Statutes, or the laws of any other state; (5)Has been an officer, principal, director, partner, division, shareholder owning or controlling ten (10) percent or more of the stock, or other organizational element of a business organization recognized by the State of Florida that meets any of the criteria specified in subsections (1) through (4) above; or (6)Is a business organization recognized by the State of Florida, and any of its officers, principals, directors, partners, divisions, shareholders owning or controlling ten (10) percent or more of the stock, or other organizational elements meet any of the criteria specified in subsections (1) through (5) above. (i)The applicant/licensee shall receive written notice of the Director's determination to deny, suspend, or revoke a license or renewal. The Director's determination may be appealed by providing, within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the written notice, a written request for an administrative hearing; the request shall be delivered to the address provided on the written notice. If a request for a hearing is received more than seven (7) calendar days from the date of the written notice, the hearing officer shall be precluded from exercising jurisdiction, and the appeal shall be dismissed as untimely. An administrative hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in Chapter 8CC of this Code. No person aggrieved by a determination of the Director may apply to the Court for relief unless they have first exhausted the remedies provided for herein and taken all available steps provided in this section. While an appeal is pending, the Director's determination shall be stayed. (j)Operating as a kennel, pet dealer, pet care center, or hobby breeder after suspension, revocation, or denial of a license or renewal is a violation of this section. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 12-80, § 4, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-14. Trapping of dogs and cats.(a)Trapping of dogs and cats shall be conducted in a humane manner and shall comply with the following minimum standards:(1)Traps shall be in good condition in that they will not cause any bodily injury to the trapped animal and a trapped animal shall have access to adequate food, water, and shelter. (2)Use of poisons, poisoned substances or stupefying substances in a trap shall be prohibited.(3)All traps shall be plainly identified with the name, telephone number, address, and Department-issued trapping license number of the owner of the trap, if applicable. (4)All traps shall be inspected daily, and no animal shall remain in a trap for longer than twelve (12) hours.(5)Traps shall be removed in the event of a hurricane warning or tropical storm warning.(6)All animals that have been trapped shall be brought to the Department, a County-approved animal rescue organization, or a licensed veterinarian for proper disposition. (b)It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the trap of another.(c)The Department may provide traps for rent for private, noncommercial use. In that event, the Department may collect a rental fee and may also collect a deposit that shall be refunded upon return of the trap. The amount of the rental fee and the deposit shall be established by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-15. Transportation of animals.(a)It shall be unlawful to transport a live animal in an animal carrier that does not allow the animal to make normal postural movements. (b)It shall be unlawful for any person to transport a live animal in an open-bed truck or other similar vehicle from which the animal can easily escape, unless: the animal is confined in a humane manner inside an animal carrier, which shall be secured within the vehicle so as to be immovable when the vehicle is in motion; or the animal is restrained by a minimum of two tethers, with one tether being affixed to each side of the vehicle, and both tethers being attached to the harness of the animal, provided that tethers shall not be attached to an animal's collar. (c)It shall be unlawful for any person to transport a live animal in an enclosed vehicle trunk. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-16. Taking of peafowl prohibited.(a)It shall be unlawful for any person to take any peafowl.(b)As used in this section, "take" means taking, attempting to take, hunting, molesting, capturing, or killing any peafowl, their nests or eggs, by any means, whether or not such actions result in obtaining possession of peafowl or their nests or eggs. (c)Exceptions.(1)The prohibitions of this section shall not apply on property zoned for agricultural use and used for a bona fide agricultural purpose. (2)Nothing in this section shall prevent a property owner from removing peafowl from his or her own property in a manner that does not physically injure the peafowl. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-17. Legislative intent. This article is intended to utilize the authority and powers of Miami-Dade County in order to secure for the citizens of this County the protection of their health, safety and. welfare. It is intended to be applicable to dogs which are commonly referred to as "pit bulls" and which are defined herein. This article is designed to regulate these pit bull dogs and to ensure responsible handling by their owners through confinement, registration, and liability insurance. The unique history nature and characteristics of pit bull dogs have been determined to require the special regulations and provisions contained within this article which the County Commission hereby finds reasonable and necessary. (Ord. No. 89-22, § 2, 4-4-89) Sec. 5-17.1. Definition and identification of a pit bull dog.(a)The term "pit bull dog" as used within this article shall refer to any dog which exhibits those distinguishing characteristics which: (1)Substantially conform to the standards established by the American Kennel Club for American Staffordshire Terriers or Staffordshire Bull Terriers; or (2)Substantially conform to the standards established by the United Kennel Club for American Pit Bull Terriers.(b)The Standards of the American Kennel Club and the United Kennel Club referred to in subsection (a) above, are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as "Exhibit A" and shall remain on file with the Animal Services Division of the Public Works Department of Miami-Dade County. (c)Technical deficiencies in the dog's conformance to the standards described in subsection (b) shall not be construed to indicate that the subject dog is not a "pit bull dog" under this article. (d)Testimony by a veterinarian, zoologist, animal behaviorist, or animal control officer that a particular dog exhibits distinguishing physical characteristics of a pit bull shall establish a rebuttable presumption that the dog is a pit bull. (Ord. No. 89-22, § 3, 4-4-89) Sec. 5-17.2. Confinement of pit bull dogs.(a)Because of the pit bull dog's inbred propensity to attack other animals, and because of the danger posed to humans and animals alike by a pit bull dog when running loose or while naming together in a pack, pit bull dogs must at all times be securely confined indoors, or confined in a securely and totally enclosed and locked pen, with either a top or with all four (4) sides at least six (6) feet high, and with a conspicuous sign displaying the words "Dangerous Dog." (b)At any time that a pit bull dog is not confined as required in subsection (a) above, the dog shall be muzzled in such a manner as to prevent it from biting or injuring any person or animal, and kept on a leash with the owner or custodian in attendance. Provided, however, that no pit bull dog may be walked within fifty (50) feet of any public school ground nor enter onto such school ground. (c)An exception to these confinement requirements is hereby provided for any pit bull dog in attendance at, and participating in, any lawful dog show, contest or exhibition sponsored by a dog club, association, society or similar organization. (d)An exception to these confinement requirements is hereby provided for any pit bull dog when the dog is actually engaged in the sport of hunting in an authorized area and supervised by a competent person. (Ord. No. 89-22, § 4, 4-4-89) Sec. 5-17.3. Evidence of financial responsibility required to be maintained by owners of pit bull dogs. In order to protect the public and to afford relief from the severe harm and injury which is likely to result from a pit bull dog attack, every owner of a pit bull dog shall maintain and be able to provide evidence of the owner's financial ability to respond in damages up to and including the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of any person or damage to property which may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such dog. Proof of ability to respond in damages shall be given by filing with the Animal Control Office a certificate of insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in the State, stating that the owner is and will be insured against liability for such damages; or by posting with the Animal Control Office a surety bond conditioned upon the payment of such damages during the period of such registration; or by posting a personal bond secured by a mortgage in real property or security interest in personal property; or a sworn statement of the owner of his/her financial ability to respond in damages up to and including the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). (Ord. No. 89-22, § 5, 4-4-89; Ord. No. 89-127, § 1, 12-19-89) Note—See § 5-17.6(a) for the effective date of this section. Sec. 5-17.4. Registration of pit bull dogs. Every owner of a pit bull dog in Miami-Dade County shall register the dog with the Animal Services Division of the Public Works Department of the County. The registration shall include the following: Name, address and telephone number of the dog's owner; the address where the dog is harbored, if different from the owner's address; a complete identification of the dog including the dog's sex, color and any other distinguishing physical characteristics; a color photograph of the dog; a description of the method of compliance with the confinement requirements; proof of the liability insurance or other evidence of financial responsibility required pursuant to this article; and a registration fee. (Ord. No. 89-22, § 8, 4-4-89) Case law annotation—AO 4-51A. Sec. 5-17.5. Enforcement. It shall, be the duty and responsibility of all Miami-Dade County Animal Control Officers to enforce the provisions of this article. (Ord. No. 89-22, § 7, 4-4-89) Sec. 5-17.6. Time for compliance.(a)All persons subject to this article shall have ninety (90) days from the effective date of this section [April 14,1989] to comply with all confinement and registration and requirements. The provisions of Section 5-17.3, entitled "Liability Insurance or Other Evidence of Financial Responsibility Required to be Maintained by Owner of Pit Bull Dogs," shall be effective on January, 1, 1990. (b)No pit bull dogs may be sold, purchased, obtained, brought into Miami-Dade County, or otherwise acquired by residents of Miami-Dade County anytime after the passage of ninety (90) days after the effective date of Ordinance Number 89-22. No such newly acquired pit bull dogs may be kept, maintained, or otherwise harbored within Miami-Dade County, and each day any such newly acquired pit bull is so kept, maintained, or harbored shall constitute a separate violation of this section. (1)Violation of subsection (b) may result in the issuance of a civil violation notice, and(2)Humane destruction of the pit bull dog by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The County Manager or his designee may apply to the court for such order pursuant to this paragraph. (c)Failure to register a pit bull dog as required by this article within the ninety-day grace period shall be prima facie evidence that the pit bull dog is a newly acquired pit bull dog. (Ord. No. 89-22, § 8, 4-4-89; Ord. No. 89-63, § 1, 7-11-89) Sec. 5-17.7. Pit bull signs in veterinary offices, kennels, commercial breeders, commercial animal establishments, pet shops, and dog grooming businesses.(1) Signs Required. Every veterinary office, kennel, commercial breeder, commercial animal establishment, pet shop, and dog grooming business must post a sign stating in English, Spanish and Creole the following: BOTH PURE AND MIXED BREED PIT BULL DOGS ARE CLASSIFIED AS DANGEROUS. IT HAS BEEN ILLEGAL TO ACQUIRE A NEW PIT BULL DOG SINCE JANUARY 1, 1990. FAILURE TO REGISTER, MUZZLE, CONFINE, AND INSURE A PIT BULL IS A VIOLATION OF THE LAW SUBJECT TO SEVERE PENALTY. Section 5-17.1, Miami-Dade Code. IF YOU OR YOUR FAMILY IS AT RISK BECAUSE SOMEONE LIVING NEAR YOU ILLEGALLY KEEPS A PIT BULL, CONTACT THE MIAMI-DADE COUNTY DANGEROUS DOG INVESTIGATOR AT [HERE INSERT CURRENT PHONE NUMBER PROVIDED BY MIAMI-DADE COUNTY]. The sign must be prominently displayed to the public and clearly legible. (2) Penalties. Failure to post a sign as required by this section shall be a civil violation subject to a $500.00 civil, penalty. Every day a sign is not posted shall be a separate violation. (Ord. No. 99-159, § 1, 11-16-99) Sec. 5-18. Impounding; animals found in distress; redeeming by owner; disposition of unredeemed animals.(a)The Department may impound an animal at a place maintained or designated for that purpose whenever:(1)An animal is a stray or has been found at large in any manner in violation of Section 5-20; or (2)The animal's owner has voluntarily surrendered ownership of the animal to the Department; or(3)An animal has been abandoned. For purposes of this section, "abandon" means to forsake entirely or to neglect or to refuse to provide or perform the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or the owner's agent. An animal shall be deemed abandoned if it has been placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian or kennel and it has not been redeemed after a period of more than ten (10) days after written notice is given to the owner or the owner's agent at the last known address; any such animal may be turned over to the Department for disposition at the discretion of the Director or designee in any lawful manner, as provided in Section 705.19, Florida Statutes. Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claim by the owner to such animal; or (4)An Animal Control Officer finds that an animal is or will be without proper care because the owner is unable to care for the animal due to injury, illness, incarceration, or other involuntary absence; or (5)The Department receives an animal from a law enforcement agency.(b)Prior to disposing of any animal, the Department will make reasonable efforts to identify and notify the animal's owner. The owner may redeem the animal upon payment of the redemption fees provided in this section. Missing animals may be reported to the Department, on a form prescribed by the Director for that purpose. An animal voluntarily surrendered by its owner to the Department, however, shall become the immediate property of the Department and may be immediately disposed of pursuant to this section. (c)Confinement period. Animals impounded pursuant to this section shall be confined by the Department for a period of five (5) days, except as provided herein. (1)The confinement period shall be five business days for: animals impounded because the owner is unable to care for the animal due to injury, illness, incarceration, or other involuntary absence; and animals received from a law enforcement agency. (2)The confinement period for puppies and kittens shall be 24 hours.(3)Animals that have been voluntarily surrendered by their owners to the Department shall not be subject to any confinement period.(4)Animals that have been abandoned while in the custody of a licensed veterinarian or kennel and that have been turned over to the Department after the 10-day notice period required by Section 705.19, Florida Statutes, shall not be subject to any confinement period. (d)Animals impounded by the Department shall be released to their owners upon presentation of proof of ownership and after proper vaccination, licensing, and payment of impounding fees and redemption charges established by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners. An owner's agent may redeem an animal upon presentation of the foregoing information as well as proof of agency. (1)For purposes of this section, proof of ownership shall include: information registered with the Department; information contained on a microchip implanted in the animal and registered with the Department and/or the applicable national microchip registry; pictures of the animal; the reaction of the animal to the purported owner; and evidence provided by a licensed veterinarian who has treated the animal. (2)Additional fees or redemption charges, established by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners, shall be assessed in the following circumstances: (i)Impoundment of a female dog while "in heat."(ii)Impoundment of an intact dog.(iii)An owner has, within a twelve-month period, redeemed more than one animal or the same animal on more than one occasion.(e)Those animals not redeemed by an owner within the foregoing confinement period may, at the discretion of the Director or designee, be put up for adoption, released to approved animal rescue organizations, humanely euthanized, or such other humane disposition as the Director or designee shall deem appropriate. It is provided, however, that such animals may not be released to any medical school, college, university, person, association, corporation, or individual for experimentation or vivisection purposes, or to any person, firm, corporation, or individual providing, selling, or supplying animals to any medical school, college, university, person, association, corporation, or individual for experimentation or vivisection purposes. (f)Nothing contained in this section shall restrict the ability of an Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer to take custody of a neglected or mistreated animal as provided in Section 828.073, Florida Statutes. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-19. Rabies quarantine; report of animal bites.(a)It shall be the duty of every attending practitioner licensed to practice medicine, osteopathic medicine, or veterinary medicine, and every other person knowing of or witnessing an incident, to promptly report to the Department of Health every instance in which a human is bitten by an animal. (b)Any animal that has bitten a human shall be captured alive, if possible. If the animal shows signs of rabies during the quarantine period provided herein, the animal shall be humanely euthanized in accordance with Section 5-24 of this chapter, and its head shall be detached without mutilation and submitted to the local Department of Health laboratory without delay. An animal that dies before capture or during the quarantine period shall also have its head detached and submitted to the Department of Health. Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, stray, abandoned, or surrendered animals may be humanely euthanized and have their heads submitted for testing immediately at the end of the applicable confinement period set forth in Section 5-18 of this chapter. (c)Any animal that has bitten a human shall be, at the discretion of the Director or the Director of the Department of Public Health: impounded and quarantined for ten (10) days from the date of the bite at the responsible party's expense at a place designated for that purpose by the Director or by the Director of the Department of Health; or placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian; or quarantined at the responsible party's home. (d)Any animal suspected of having rabies or any animal that has been bitten by a known rabid animal shall be impounded and quarantined at the responsible party's expense at a place designated by the Director or the Director of Public Health for that purpose or placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for ten (10) days. (e)If an animal is quarantined at the home of the responsible party pursuant to this section, the responsible party shall be liable for failing to properly confine the animal during the quarantine period. (f)Upon completion of the quarantine period, the responsible party shall take the animal to a licensed veterinarian for certification that the animal is in good health and that its rabies vaccinations are current. The responsible party shall provide the veterinarian's certification to the Department within ten (10) days of the veterinary examination. (g)Service animals and animals used for law enforcement purposes shall be exempt from the quarantine requirements of this section, provided that the animal's rabies vaccination is current and was administered in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-20. Regulations on dogs in public areas.(a)Legislative intent. It is deemed in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizenry and visitors of Miami-Dade County, Florida, that all necessary precautions be implemented to prevent cutaneous larva migrans (a frequently severe skin disorder caused by the infective larvae of a dog hookworm which is transmitted by the contact of the human skin with soil contaminated by dog feces), and visceral larva migrans (a disease caused by the ingestion of larvae dog roundworms which commonly occurs when young children swallow dirt). (b)It shall be unlawful for a responsible party to allow, whether willfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, a dog into or upon any public park or beach in the county; provided, however, this provision shall not apply to parkways, wayside parks, or other park areas in which dogs are specifically authorized. (c)It shall be unlawful for a responsible party to allow, whether willfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, a dog to commit any nuisance upon: the sidewalk of any public street; the floor of any common hall in any apartment house, hotel, or other multifamily dwelling; or any entranceway, stairway or wall immediately abutting on a public sidewalk; or the floor of any theatre, shop, store, office building or other building used in common by the public. "Nuisance," for the purposes of this section, shall be defined as defecation and/or urination. If a dog defecates on the grassy swale of a public right-of-way or other such public property, or on private property without the express or implied consent of the property owner, the responsible party shall remove the defecation and deposit it in an appropriate trash receptacle, sanitary disposal unit, or other sealed container. (d)It shall be unlawful for a responsible party to allow, whether willfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, a dog to be unrestrained or to be at large in any manner in or upon: public property; a common area of a private building or development; or the private property of others without the express or implied consent of the property owner. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a dog may be unrestrained and shall not be deemed to be at large if it is supervised by a competent person and is: (i) in a park area in which dogs are specifically authorized by a municipality or by the County to be unrestrained; or (ii) engaged in the sport of hunting in an authorized area. An intact dog running at large shall be subject to higher civil penalties than a sterilized dog; provided, however, that if the dog is sterilized within 30 days of receipt of the civil violation notice, the penalty shall be reduced to the amount for a sterilized dog. An intact dog shall be sterilized if it has received more than two civil violation notices for violations of this section that, if appealed, have been affirmed. (e)It shall be unlawful for a responsible party to fail to exercise proper care and control of his dog or dogs so as to allow the dog or dogs to become a public nuisance. Chasing vehicles or persons and trespassing upon public or private property in such a manner as to damage property shall be deemed a public nuisance. (f)Exceptions. Subsections (b) through (d) of this section shall not apply to a person using a service animal or to a law enforcement officer using an animal for law enforcement purposes. Subsection (e) shall not apply to a law enforcement officer using an animal for law enforcement purposes. (g)Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8CC-4 governing the penalties for repeat or continuing violations, for enforcement by civil penalty in accordance with Chapter 8CC of this code, a second violation of this section shall carry a civil penalty of 2.5 times the penalty listed in Section 8CC-10, a third violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3 times the listed penalty, and each subsequent violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3.5 times the listed penalty. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 10-27, § 1, 5-4-10; Ord. No. 12-77, § 2, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-20.1. Confinement of intact female dog during estrus. An intact female dog in heat (estrus) shall be confined during such period of time so that no other dog may gain access to the confined animal, except for intentional breeding purposes. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-21. Tethering of dogs.(a)As used in this section, tether means to restrain a dog by tying the dog to any object or structure, including without limitation a house, tree, fence, post, garage, or shed, by any means, including without limitation a chain, rope, cord, leash, or running line. Tethering shall not include using a leash to walk a dog. (b)It shall be unlawful for a responsible party to tether a dog while outdoors, except when all of the following conditions are met: (1)The dog is in visual range of the responsible party, and the responsible party is located outside with the dog.(2)The tether is connected to the dog by a buckle-type collar or a body harness made of nylon or leather, not less than one inch in width. (3)The tether has the following properties: it is at least five times the length of the dog's body, as measured from the tip of the nose to the base of the tail; it terminates at both ends with a swivel; it does not weigh more than 1/8 of the dog's weight; and it is free of tangles. (4)The dog is tethered in such a manner as to prevent injury, strangulation, or entanglement.(5)The dog is not outside during a period of extreme weather, including without limitation extreme heat or near-freezing temperatures, thunderstorms, tornadoes, tropical storms, or hurricanes. (6)The dog has access to water, shelter, and dry ground.(7)The dog is at least six months of age. Puppies shall not be tethered.(8)The dog is not sick or injured.(9)Pulley, running line, or trolley systems are at least 15 feet in length and are less than 7 feet above the ground.(10)If there are multiple dogs, each dog is tethered separately.(c)Nothing in this section shall be construed to excuse a violation of section 5-20 of this chapter. (d)This section shall not apply to the transportation of dogs, and in the event of a conflict with Section 5-15 of this chapter, Section 5-15 shall govern. (e)For a first-time violation, the Department shall issue a warning notice to the responsible party and shall wait at least thirty (30) days before taking any further enforcement action against the responsible party. Thereafter, each violation of this section shall be subject to enforcement in accordance with Section 5-2 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8CC-4 governing the penalties for repeat or continuing violations, or enforcement by civil penalty in accordance with Chapter 8CC of this code, a third violation shall carry a civil penalty of 2.5 times the penalty listed in Section 8CC-10, and each subsequent violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3 times the listed penalty. For all civil penalties for violations of this section collected pursuant to Chapter 8CC, 75% of the amount collected shall be paid to the Animal Services Trust Fund, created by Miami-Dade County Resolution No. R-1385-06, as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. No. 08-120, § 1, 10-7-08; Ord. No. 12-77, § 3, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-21.1. Dogs on rooftops. It shall be unlawful to house, maintain, keep, or otherwise have a dog on the rooftop of any building. It is provided, however, that it shall not be a violation of this section for a dog to temporarily accompany a responsible party on the rooftop, or to have a dog in any habitable residential area. (Ord. No. 12-101, § 1, 12-4-12) Sec. 5-22. Dangerous dogs; authority to designate dog as dangerous; confiscation; appeal procedures.(a)Legislative Intent. This section and Section 5-23 are intended to utilize the authority and powers of Miami-Dade County in order to secure for the citizens of this County the protection of their health, safety and welfare. It is intended to be applicable to dangerous dogs, which are defined herein. This section is designed to identify and regulate these dangerous dogs and to ensure responsible handling by their owners through confinement, registration, and liability insurance. Dangerous dogs have caused extensive damage to persons, other domestic animals, and property, and have been determined to require the special regulations and provisions contained within this section, which the County Commission hereby finds reasonable and necessary. (b)For purposes of this section, Section 5-23 and Section 5-23.1 of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply: (1)"Dangerous dog" means any dog that has been designated as dangerous by the Department pursuant to this section.(2)"Unprovoked" means that the victim was acting peacefully and lawfully when encountering the dog and that the dog was not acting defensively or responding to a threat. (3)"Severe injury" means any physical injury that results in: wounds from a bite or bites; a deep puncture wound that requires drainage; a broken bone; or a disfiguring laceration requiring sutures or reconstructive surgery. (4)"Proper enclosure of a dangerous dog" means that, while on the responsible party's property, a dangerous dog is securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have four (4) secure sides, each at least six (6) feet high, and a secure top to prevent the dog from escaping over, under, or through the structure, and shall also provide protection from the elements. The pen or structure shall allow the dog to make normal postural movements and to walk around and shall also comply with the minimum standards for primary enclosures set forth in Section 5-9(d)(1) through (3) of this chapter. (c)The responsible party shall be liable for any of the following acts:(1)His or her dog, when unprovoked, endangers, attacks, or bites a human;(2)His or her dog, when unprovoked and while off the responsible party's property, attacks or bites a domestic animal;(3)He or she uses or trains a dog for dog fighting; or(4)His or her dog, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a human in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack upon the streets, sidewalks, or any other public property or common area of a private building or development. (d)The Director or designee shall designate a dog as dangerous if the dog commits one (1) or more of the following acts:(1)To, when unprovoked, endanger, attack, or bite a human;(2)To, when unprovoked and while off the responsible party's property, severely injure or kill a domestic animal more than once;(3)To, when unprovoked, chase or approach a human in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack upon the streets, sidewalks, or any other public property or common area of a private building or development. (e)An individual desiring to have a dog designated as dangerous shall attest in a sworn affidavit to the incident giving rise to the request or shall file a police report and provide a copy of the police report to the Department, but the Department may commence an investigation prior to receiving an affidavit or police report. The Department shall not investigate anonymous complaints. (f)Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the responsible party shall not be liable, and the dog shall not be designated as dangerous, if the threat, injury, or damage was sustained: (1)By a human who, at the time, was unlawfully on the property of the responsible party; or(2)By a human who, while lawfully on the property of the responsible party, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, the responsible party, or another person lawfully on the property; or (3)While the dog was protecting or defending a human within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault; or (4)By a human who was engaged in or attempting to engage in a criminal activity at the time of the attack; or(5)While the dog was engaged in a legal hunt or in a legal sport or exhibition such as an obedience trial, conformation show, field trial, hunting/retrieving trial, or herding trial; or (6)While the dog was engaged in law enforcement work under the direction of a law enforcement officer.(g)Confiscation and confinement. Animal Control Officers and law enforcement officers are hereby authorized to confiscate dogs that are the subject of dangerous dog investigations, and the Director is hereby authorized to institute appropriate proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction if necessary to effectuate the seizure of the dog. The Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall issue the responsible party a written notice of the confiscation. Any animal that is the subject of a dangerous dog investigation and that is not impounded by the Department shall be humanely and safely confined by the responsible party in a securely fenced or enclosed area, pending the outcome of the investigation and resolution of any hearings related to the dangerous dog designation. The address of where the animal resides shall be provided to the Department. The responsible party shall be responsible for payment of all boarding costs and other fees as may be required to humanely and safely keep the animal during any appeal procedures. (h)A dog that is the subject of a dangerous dog investigation shall not be relocated or have its ownership transferred pending the outcome of an investigation or any hearings related to the determination of a dangerous dog designation, unless with the express written permission of the Department. In the event that a dog is to be euthanized, the dog shall not be relocated, and ownership of the dog shall not be transferred, unless with the express written permission of the Department. (i)If the Director or designee determines that there is sufficient cause to designate the dog as dangerous, written notification of that determination shall be delivered to the responsible party by registered mail, certified hand delivery, or service of process in conformance with Chapter 48, Florida Statutes. That determination, and any related fines issued pursuant to Chapter 8CC of this Code, may be appealed by providing, within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the written notification, a written request for an administrative hearing; the request shall be delivered to the address provided on the written notice. If a request for a hearing is received more than seven (7) calendar days from the receipt of the written notification, the hearing officer shall be precluded from exercising jurisdiction, and the appeal shall be dismissed as untimely. (j)Appeal procedures. Upon receipt of a timely written request for an administrative hearing, the Director or designee shall schedule an administrative hearing to be held not later than 21 calendar days, and not sooner than 5 days, after receipt of the written request. The administrative hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in Chapter 8CC of this Code. Determinations of dangerousness and fines based on the same incident shall be heard at the same administrative hearing. No person aggrieved by a determination to designate a dog as dangerous may apply to the Court for relief unless he has first exhausted the remedies provided for herein and taken all available steps provided in this section. While an appeal is pending, the determination shall be stayed; provided, however, that pending resolution of the appeal, the responsible party shall confine the dog in a securely fenced or enclosed area. If the Department has confiscated the dog, the responsible party shall be responsible for payment of all boarding costs and other fees as may be required to humanely and safely keep the dog during any appeal procedures. (k)The responsible party shall be liable for failing to properly confine a dog pending an appeal.(l)The responsible party shall be liable if a dog that has not previously been declared dangerous attacks and causes severe injury or death to a human when unprovoked. (1)The dog shall be immediately confiscated by the Department, placed in quarantine and impounded, held for ten (10) business days after the responsible party is given written notice of the confiscation and the determination of the Department to euthanize the dog, and thereafter euthanized in accordance with Section 5-24 of this chapter. (2)The euthanasia determination, and any related fines issued pursuant to Chapter 8CC of this Code, may be appealed by providing, within the ten-day impoundment period, a written request for an administrative hearing; the request shall be delivered to the address provided on the confiscation notice. The administrative hearing shall be conducted in accordance with this section. If a request for a hearing is received after the expiration of the ten-day impoundment period, the hearing officer shall be precluded from exercising jurisdiction, and the appeal shall be dismissed as untimely. (m)Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8CC-4 governing the penalties for repeat or continuing violations, for enforcement by civil penalty in accordance with Chapter 8CC of this code, a second violation of this section shall carry a civil penalty of 2.5 times the penalty listed in Section 8CC-10, a third violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3 times the listed penalty, and each subsequent violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3.5 times the listed penalty. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for dogs that were declared dangerous prior to October 12, 2012, the provisions of Section 8CC-4 addressing repeat or continuing violations shall continue to govern. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 11-27, § 1, 5-3-11; Ord. No. 12-77, § 4, 10-2-12; Ord. No. 12-80, § 5, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-23. Additional regulations relating to dangerous dogs.(a)Within fourteen (14) days after a dog has been designated as dangerous, or a dangerous dog designation is upheld on appeal, the responsible party shall obtain a certificate of registration for the dog from the Department. The responsible party shall renew the certificate annually. The registration shall include the following: Name, address and telephone number of the dog's owner; the address where the dog is harbored, if different from the owner's address; a complete identification of the dog, including the dog's sex, color, and any other distinguishing physical characteristics; and a color photograph of the dog. Certificates of registration and renewals thereof shall only be issued to competent persons who are at least eighteen (18) years of age and who present to the Department sufficient evidence that: (1)The dog has been vaccinated in accordance with Section 5-6 of this chapter; (2)The dog has been sterilized;(3)The dog has been implanted with a microchip, the microchip has been registered with the national registry applicable to the microchip, and the microchip number and other identifying information have been provided to the Department; (4)Because of the danger posed to humans and animals alike by dangerous dogs running loose or while running together in a pack, the dog is at all times confined in a proper enclosure of a dangerous dog, except as otherwise provided in this section; and (5)A clearly visible warning sign at all entry points conspicuously displaying the words "Dangerous Dog" informs both children and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on the property. (6)All information required for the Miami-Dade County Dangerous Dog Registry pursuant to subsection (i) below has been provided.(b)Prior to issuance of the certificate of registration and renewals thereof, the responsible party shall pay the Department a fee set by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (c)The responsible party shall immediately notify the Department in writing:(1)When a dangerous dog is loose or unconfined;(2)When a dangerous dog has bitten a human or attacked another animal;(3)Prior to a dangerous dog being sold or given away, or when a dangerous dog dies; or(4)When a dangerous dog is moved to another address.(d)If a dangerous dog is sold or given away, the former responsible party shall provide the name, address, and telephone number of the new responsible party to the Department, shall update all relevant information with the national registry applicable to the microchip, and shall provide the Department with confirmation that the microchip information has been updated. The new responsible party shall comply with all of the requirements of this chapter, even if the animal is later moved from this County to another county within the State. If a dog that has been designated by another jurisdiction as dangerous, aggressive, or similar classification is brought into Miami-Dade County, the responsible party shall immediately register the dog with the Department in accordance with this section. (e)Exceptions to Confinement Requirement.(1)The dog is muzzled and restrained by a chain or leash and under the control of a competent person. It shall be unlawful for the responsible party to permit a dangerous dog to be outside a proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a chain or leash, and under the control of a competent person. It is provided, however, that no dangerous dog may be walked within fifty (50) feet of any school ground nor enter onto such school ground even if restrained and muzzled. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision, respiration, or hydration, but will prevent it from biting any person or animal. When being transported, a dangerous dog shall be safely and securely restrained within a vehicle; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be construed to excuse a violation of Section 5-15 of this chapter. (2)The responsible party may exercise the dog on the responsible party's property in a securely enclosed area that does not have a top, without a muzzle or leash, if the area is completely enclosed by fences or walls at least six (6) feet in height, the responsible party remains outside with the dog, and only members of the responsible party's immediate household or persons eighteen (18) years of age or older are allowed in the enclosure when the dog is present. (3)A dangerous dog being used as a guard dog to protect vacant property may remain outside provided that (i) the owner provides to the Department certification from an animal training professional that the dog has been properly trained as a guard dog and (ii) the dog remains at all times in a securely enclosed area that is completely enclosed by fences or walls at least six (6) feet in height. The responsible party shall be liable if the dangerous dog escapes from the vacant property. (4)A dangerous dog is in attendance at, and participating in, any lawful dog show, contest, or exhibition sponsored by a dog club, association, society, or similar organization, and the dog is supervised by a competent person. (5)A dangerous dog is actually engaged in the sport of hunting in an authorized area and supervised by a competent person.(f)The responsible party shall be liable if a dangerous dog attacks or bites a human or a domestic animal when unprovoked.(1)The dog shall be immediately confiscated by the Department, placed in quarantine and impounded, held for ten (10) business days after the responsible party is given written notice of the confiscation and the determination of the Department to euthanize the dog, and thereafter euthanized in accordance with Section 5-24 of this chapter. (2)The euthanasia determination, and any related fines issued pursuant to Chapter 8CC of this Code, may be appealed by providing, within the ten-day impoundment period, a written request for an administrative hearing; the request shall be delivered to the address provided on the confiscation notice. If a request for a hearing is received after the expiration of the ten-day impoundment period, the hearing officer shall be precluded from exercising jurisdiction, and the appeal shall be dismissed as untimely. The administrative hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Section 5-22 of this chapter. (3)The Director is hereby authorized to institute appropriate proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction if necessary to effectuate the seizure of a dog while a violation of this section is under investigation. (4)Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, an attack or bite by a dangerous dog shall not be a violation of this section if the dog could not be designated as dangerous for the same conduct pursuant to Section 5-22(d) of this chapter. (g)Upon the euthanasia of a dog based on a violation of Section 5-22 or of this section: (1)The Department shall provide the responsible party written notice containing all costs and fees incurred by the Department in the confiscation, maintenance, quarantine and euthanasia of the dog, with a deadline of not less than thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice of payment of the costs and fees. (2)Miami-Dade County may thereafter institute proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel payment of the fees and costs incurred by the Department in the confiscation, maintenance, quarantine and euthanasia of the dog. A certified copy of an order awarding the County its fees and costs may be recorded in the public records and thereafter shall constitute a lien against the land of the violator or, if the violator does not own the land, upon any other real or personal property owned by the violator; and it may be enforced in the same manner as a court judgment by the sheriffs of this State, including levy against the personal property, but shall not be deemed to be a court judgment except for enforcement purposes. After one (1) year from the filing of any such lien which remains unpaid, Miami-Dade County may foreclose on the lien. (h)Nothing contained herein shall prevent any person from applying to a court of competent jurisdiction for the seizure, impoundment, or euthanasia of a dangerous dog based on the responsible party's failure to comply with the requirements of this section. (i)Dangerous Dog Registry. The Department shall maintain a publicly accessible website, called the "Miami-Dade County Dangerous Dog Registry," of all dangerous dogs registered with the Department. At the time of registration under subsection (a) above, the responsible party shall provide the following information to the Department, to be posted on the Dangerous Dog Registry: the name and address of the owner of the dangerous dog; the address where the dangerous dog is maintained; the name, sex, age, weight, primary breed, secondary breed, and color and markings of the dangerous dog; a photograph of the dangerous dog; the most recent vaccination date of the dangerous dog and the expiration date of the vaccine; the microchip number of the dangerous dog; and the case numbers of any judicial or administrative proceedings concerning the matters that resulted in the dog being declared dangerous. The Dangerous Dog Registry entry for each dangerous dog shall also include a brief description of the incident or incidents that resulted in the dog being declared dangerous. Nothing herein shall require the disclosure of personal identifying information that is exempt or confidential under state law. The Mayor shall develop appropriate procedures to insure protection of identifying information that is exempt or confidential under state law. (j)Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8CC-4 governing the penalties for repeat or continuing violations, for enforcement by civil penalty in accordance with Chapter 8CC of this code, a second violation of this section shall carry a civil penalty of 2.5 times the penalty listed in Section 8CC-10, a third violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3 times the listed penalty, and each subsequent violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3.5 times the listed penalty. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for dogs that were declared dangerous prior to October 12, 2012, the provisions of Section 8CC-4 addressing repeat or continuing violations shall continue to govern. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 12-77, § 5, 10-2-12; Ord. No. 12-80, § 6, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-23.1. Aggressive dogs; authority to designate dog as aggressive; appeal procedures; additional regulations on aggressive dogs.(a) Definition. "Aggressive dog" means any dog that has been designated as aggressive by the Department pursuant to this section. (b) [Designation as aggressive.] The Director or designee shall designate a dog as "aggressive" if the dog, when unprovoked and while off of the owner's property, severely injures or kills a domestic animal. (1)An individual desiring to have a dog designated as aggressive shall attest in a sworn affidavit to the incident giving rise to the request, but the Department may commence an investigation prior to receiving an affidavit. The Department shall not investigate anonymous complaints. (2)A dog that is the subject of an aggressive dog investigation shall not, without the prior written approval of the Director or designee, be relocated, sold, or given away pending the outcome of an investigation or any hearings related to the determination of an aggressive dog designation. (c) Procedures. If the Director or designee determines that there is sufficient cause to designate the dog as aggressive, written notification of that determination shall be delivered to the responsible party by registered mail, certified hand delivery, or service of process in conformance with Chapter 48, Florida Statutes. That determination, and any related fines issued pursuant to Chapter 8CC of this Code, may be appealed by providing, within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the written notification, a written request for an administrative hearing; the request shall be delivered to the address provided on the written notice. If a request for a hearing is received more than seven (7) calendar days from the receipt of the written notification, the hearing officer shall be precluded from exercising jurisdiction, and the appeal shall be dismissed as untimely. (d) Appeal procedures. Upon receipt of a timely written request for an administrative hearing, the Director or designee shall schedule an administrative hearing to be held not later than 21 calendar days, and not sooner than 5 days, after receipt of the written request. The administrative hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in Chapter 8CC of this Code. Determinations of aggressiveness and fines based on the same incident shall be heard at the same administrative hearing. No person aggrieved by a determination to designate a dog as aggressive may apply to the Court for relief unless he has first exhausted the remedies provided for herein and taken all available steps provided in this section. While an appeal is pending, the determination shall be stayed. (e) Registration. Within 14 days after a dog has been designated as aggressive or an aggressive dog designation is upheld on appeal, the responsible party shall obtain a certificate of registration for the dog from the Department. The responsible party shall renew the certificate annually. Certificates of registration and renewals thereof shall only be issued to a competent person who is at least 18 years of age and who presents to the department sufficient evidence that: (1)The dog has been vaccinated in accordance with Section 5-6 of this chapter; (2)The dog has been licensed in accordance with Section 5-7 of this chapter; and (3)The dog has been implanted with a microchip, the microchip has been registered with the national registry applicable to the microchip, and the microchip number and other identifying information have been provided to the Department. Prior to issuance of the certificate of registration and renewals thereof, the responsible party shall pay the Department a fee set by implementing order approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (f) [Registration of out-of-county aggressive dog.] If a dog that has been designated by another jurisdiction as aggressive or similar classification is brought into Miami-Dade County, the responsible party shall immediately register the dog with the Department as an aggressive dog in accordance with this section. (g) Additional regulations on aggressive dogs. (1)The responsible party shall immediately notify the Department in writing when an aggressive dog has been moved to another address. (2)If an aggressive dog is sold or given away, the former responsible party shall provide the name, address, and telephone number of the new responsible party to the Department, shall update all relevant information with the national registry applicable to the microchip, and shall provide the Department with confirmation that the microchip information has been updated. The new responsible party shall comply with all of the requirements of this chapter even if the animal is later moved from this County to another county within the State. (3)The responsible party shall immediately notify the Department in writing when an aggressive dog has bitten a human or a domestic animal. (4)Restrictions on breeding. It shall be unlawful to breed, or to permit another to use for breeding, an aggressive dog.(h) [Designation as dangerous dog.] If an aggressive dog severely injures or kills a domestic animal, it may be designated as "dangerous" pursuant to Section 5-22 of this chapter. (i) [Penalties and fines.] Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8CC-4 governing the penalties for repeat or continuing violations, for enforcement by civil penalty in accordance with Chapter 8CC of this code, a second violation of this section shall carry a civil penalty of 2.5 times the penalty listed in Section 8CC-10, a third violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3 times the listed penalty, and each subsequent violation shall carry a civil penalty of 3.5 times the listed penalty. (Ord. No. 12-77, § 6, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-23.2. Irresponsible dog owners.(a)A person shall be designated as an "irresponsible dog owner" upon being found guilty, more than once, of (i) violating Sections 5-20, 5-21, 5-22, 5-23, or 5-23.1 of this code or (ii) committing upon a dog an act deemed cruelty to animals in violation of Section 5-4 of this code. For purposes of this section, "found guilty" means that a citation for such violation has been issued and either the citation has not been appealed or, if the citation is appealed, the action of the code enforcement officer has been affirmed on appeal. The designation shall take effect on the later of (i) the date that the time to appeal an enforcement action expires or (ii) the date a decision affirming the enforcement action is rendered. (b)An irresponsible dog owner shall be prohibited from acquiring, owning, keeping, or harboring additional dogs for a period of 3 years after being so designated. Upon a subsequent violation of any of the provisions listed in subsection (a) above, an irresponsible dog owner shall be prohibited from acquiring, owning, keeping, or harboring additional dogs for a period of 5 years after being found guilty of the subsequent violation. (c)An irresponsible dog owner may be required to surrender to the Department all the dogs he owns, keeps, or harbors upon designation or after subsequent violations. The Director is hereby authorized to institute appropriate proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction to effectuate the seizure of the dogs. (Ord. No. 12-77, § 7, 10-2-12) Sec. 5-24. Euthanasia of injured and diseased animals, impounded animals, and abandoned animals.(a) Legislative intent. Some animals suffer so greatly from illness, injury, or neglect that human compassion calls for their immediate euthanasia. In addition, some animals become infected with dangerous transmissible diseases that pose a risk to the residents of Miami-Dade County. In addition, the Department maintains an animal shelter where it houses animals that have been impounded pursuant to law and that, in many cases, either possess no evidence of ownership, or have been abandoned by their owners. Some of those animals also suffer greatly from illness, injury, disease, or neglect. The Board of County Commissioners hereby finds that public necessity, human compassion, and the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of the people and animals of Miami-Dade County require the enactment of the following regulations to govern the humane euthanasia of animals. (b) Methods of euthanasia. Animals shall be euthanized only in accordance with the following procedures, unless provided otherwise in this section. (1)Sodium pentobarbital, a sodium pentobarbital derivative, or other agent the Board of Veterinary Medicine may approve by rule, shall be the only methods used for euthanasia. A lethal solution shall be used in the following order of preference: (i)Intravenous injection by hypodermic needle.(ii)Intraperitoneal injection by hypodermic needle.(iii)Intracardial injection by hypodermic needle if the animal is unconscious.(iv)Solution or powder added to food. Before euthanasia is performed, an animal may be tranquilized with a humane substance approved by Board of Veterinary Medicine. (2)Succinylcholine chloride, curare, curariform mixtures, any substance which acts as a neuromuscular blocking agent, or a chamber which causes a change in body oxygen, except a chamber that uses commercially bottled carbon monoxide gas, may not be used on an animal for any purpose. However, whenever an emergency situation exists which requires the immediate euthanasia of an injured, diseased, or dangerous animal, a law enforcement officer, a veterinarian, a certified euthanasia technician, or an Animal Control Officer may humanely euthanize the animal as provided in subsection (a) above. (3)Euthanasia shall be performed only by a licensed veterinarian or certified euthanasia technician.(4)Euthanasia shall be performed in a humane and proficient manner.(5)No animal may be left unattended between the time euthanasia procedures are first begun and the time death occurs, nor may its body be disposed of until death is confirmed by a licensed veterinarian or certified euthanasia technician. (c) Euthanasia of animals impounded by the Department. An animal impounded by the Department pursuant to Section 5-18 of this chapter may be humanely euthanized in accordance with this section after the minimum period of confinement has expired. (1)Prior to the euthanasia of any animal pursuant to this section, the Director or designee will make reasonable efforts to review the official reports of missing animals that were filed with the Department in the fourteen days preceding the proposed date of euthanasia. If a pertinent report is discovered, the Director or designee will make reasonable efforts to notify the person(s) listed on the official missing animal report of the impoundment and proposed euthanasia of the animal. If the animal is not redeemed in accordance with Section 5-18 of this chapter within five (5) days of notification, the Department may proceed with the euthanasia. (2)The Department may euthanize an animal without regard to any minimum period of confinement when the animal has been voluntarily surrendered to the Department by the owner or when all of the following three (3) conditions are met: (i)The animal does not bear a Miami-Dade County license tag or other evidence of its owner's identity, or the Department has been unable to contact the owner after making reasonable efforts. (ii)The animal is certified in writing by a Florida-licensed veterinarian or certified euthanasia technician either: to be suffering from, or afflicted with, a contagious, infectious or communicable disease which is proclaimed in a validly promulgated regulation of the Director to be of a dangerous and transmissible nature; or to be manifesting symptoms of debilitating pain and is certified to be suffering from disease, injury, or extreme neglect. Certification shall be accomplished prior to the euthanasia of the animal and shall include the date and time of examination and certification. All such certifications shall be public records open to the public inspection in accordance with law. (iii)The euthanasia of the animal is recommended in writing by the Director, a veterinarian, or a certified euthanasia technician.(3)The Director or designee is authorized to order the immediate euthanasia of any animal within the Department's custody when the owner authorizes such euthanasia. The Department shall maintain a written record of the names and addresses of persons delivering animals to the Department's custody and of persons authorizing the euthanasia of their animals. This record shall include a description of all such animals. Nothing herein shall prohibit the Department from treating, or seeking treatment for, animals within the Department's custody. (d) Immediate euthanasia of an injured or diseased domestic animal. (1)The purpose of this section is to provide a swift and merciful means whereby domestic animals which are suffering from disease, injury, or extreme neglect may be euthanized without unconscionable delay and in a humane and proficient manner. (2)The term "officer" as used in this section means any law enforcement officer, any veterinarian, any certified euthanasia technician, any animal control officer, or the Director. (3)Whenever any domestic animal is so injured or diseased as to be in a suffering condition, and it reasonably appears to an officer that such animal is imminently near death and the officer has made a reasonable and concerted, but unsuccessful, effort to locate the responsible party or a veterinarian, then such officer, acting in good faith and upon reasonable belief, may immediately euthanize such animal by shooting the animal or injecting it with a barbiturate drug. If the officer locates the responsible party, the officer shall notify the responsible party of the animal's location and condition. If the officer locates only a veterinarian, the officer shall euthanize the animal only upon the advice of the veterinarian. (4)This section does not prohibit a responsible party from euthanizing his/her own domestic animal in a humane and proficient manner when the conditions described in this section exist. (5)No officer or veterinarian acting in good faith and with due care pursuant to this section shall be liable either criminally or civilly for such act, nor shall any civil or criminal liability attach to the employer of the officer or veterinarian. (6)A court order shall not be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08) Sec. 5-25. Municipalities authorized to adopt additional regulations. Any municipality may adopt and enforce additional regulations governing the control of dogs within the boundaries of such municipality; provided that any such municipal regulation shall not conflict with the provisions of this chapter, and that the costs of the enforcement of such additional municipal regulations shall be borne by the municipality. (Ord. No. 08-10, § 3, 1-22-08)

,Chapter 6 BLOOD DONOR FACILITIES [1]

Sec. 6-1. Short title.Sec. 6-2. Definitions.Sec. 6-3. Modified reenactment of Florida Clinical Laboratory Law.Sec. 6-4. Reenactment of regulations of the United States Food and Drug Administration.Sec. 6-4.1. Donor identification system for plasma donors and plasmapheresis facilities.Sec. 6-4.2. Breath analysis required of commercial donors.Sec. 6-5. Reporting of communicable disease.Sec. 6-5.1. Procedure for the denial, revocation, suspension, limitation, annulment or denial of renewal of the registration of any blood donor facility or license of blood donor facility personnel.Sec. 6-5.2. Procedure for the denial, suspension or revocation of any donor identification card.Sec. 6-5.3. Reserved.Sec. 6-6. Enforcement, inspection, penalties.Sec. 6-7. Criminal penalty.Sec. 6-1. Short title. This chapter may be cited as the "Dade County Blood Donor Facility Ordinance." (Ord. No. 73-91, § 1, 10-30-73) Sec. 6-2. Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as hereinafter provided: (a) Blood donor facility means any facility the primary function of which is to obtain, by venipuncture, source blood or plasma (human) intended for injection. (b) Donor means a person present at a blood donor facility for the purpose of undergoing venipuncture in order to extract source blood or plasma (human) intended for injection. (c) Party means individuals, partnerships, corporations, associations, or public or private organizations of any character. (Ord. No. 73-91, § 2, 10-30-73; Ord. No. 74-4, §§ 1, 4, 2-5-74; Ord. No. 74-53, § 1, 7-2-74) Sec. 6-3. Modified reenactment of Florida Clinical Laboratory Law. Florida Statutes, Chapter 483, Laws of Florida 1971, otherwise known as The Florida Clinical Laboratory Law, and hereinafter referred to as the "statute," is incorporated herein by reference and shall be a part of this chapter as though set forth herein verbatim subject to the following provisions: (a)Wherever in the statute reference is made to a clinical laboratory, that reference shall be deemed and construed to be a reference to a blood donor facility. (b)Whenever in the statute, except in Section 483.051(3) thereof, reference is made to the State of Florida, that reference shall be deemed and construed to be a reference to Dade County. (c)Wherever in the statute reference is made to the Division of Health of the Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, that reference shall be deemed and construed to be a reference to the Dade County Department of Public Health. (d)The following sections of the statute are inapplicable to and specifically excluded from this chapter: Sections 483.011; 483.041(7); 483.051(6), (7); 483.081; 483.161 beginning with the word "microbiology" and continuing through the word "tech- nology"; 483.181; 483.191; and 483.24. (Ord. No. 73-91, § 3, 10-30-73) Sec. 6-4. Reenactment of regulations of the United States Food and Drug Administration. The regulations of the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Sections 273.3100 through 273.3108 inclusively, as set forth in the Federal Register, Volume 38, Number 139, and Sections 600.10, 600.11, 640.1 through 640.18 inclusively, as set forth in the Federal Register, Volume 38, Number 223, and as may be modified from time to time hereafter are incorporated herein by reference and shall be a part of this chapter as though set forth herein verbatim. Said regulations shall be applicable to blood donor facilities within Dade County. (Ord. No. 73-91, § 4, 10-30-73; Ord. No. 74-53, § 2, 7-2-74) Sec. 6-4.1. Donor identification system for plasma donors and plasmapheresis facilities.(a) Definitions. As used in this section the following terms shall be defined as hereinafter provided: (1)"Plasma donor" means an individual who undergoes venipuncture (or phlebotomy) to obtain the liquid portion of blood (plasma).(2)"Plasmapheresis" means the procedure whereby whole blood is removed from a plasma donor by venipuncture (or phlebotomy) and the plasma is separated therefrom. (3)"Plasmapheresis facility" means any facility, laboratory, or place of business where plasmapheresis is performed.(b) Plasma donor identification system. There shall be established, pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Director of the Dade County Department of Public Health, a system for the registration and identification of and the gathering of medical data applicable to any person who shall undergo or attempt to undergo plasmapheresis in any plasmapheresis facility in Dade County. The information, data gathering, and registration system for which provision is herein made shall be known as the "Plasma Donor Identification System:" (1)Donor identification card required. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to present himself for plasmapheresis and for any plasmapheresis facility to perform plasmapheresis on any individual, unless that individual shall first present to the plasmapheresis facility a valid donor registration card for which provision is made in subsection (b)(2) of this section. (2)Application for donor registration number and donor registration card. Each prospective plasma donor before undergoing plasmapheresis shall make application to the Department of Public Health, in a manner prescribed by that Department, for a donor identification number and a donor identification card. Each plasmapheresis facility shall be required to place and maintain upon the premises of the facility such photographic and other identification equipment as shall be required by the Director of the Dade County Department of Public Health for the maintenance of the plasma donor identification system. (3)Records and confidentiality. Records shall be kept by each plasmapheresis facility and by the Department of Public Health pertaining to each plasmapheresis procedure performed and each attempt by an individual to undergo plasmapheresis. Such records shall set forth the date of the aforementioned events, identifying information pertaining to the plasma donor or prospective plasma donor, and such other identifying and medical data as shall be required by the Department of Public Health. All of the aforementioned information shall be provided by plasmapheresis facilities to the Department of Public Health daily and the Department of Public Health shall compile such information and give prompt notification of any violation of this section or the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto. The Department of Public Health shall keep all its records in a manner which protects the rights of individuals to the confidentiality of their medical records. The disclosure of the identity of or other information relating to blood donors, except as such disclosure is directly related to and necessary for enforcement of this section is expressly prohibited. (4)Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain or attempt to obtain more than one (1) plasma donor identification card or more than one (1) plasma donor identification number, or for any person to attempt to utilize a donor identification card or donor identification number of another individual, or for any person to provide false information to a plasmapheresis facility or to the Department of Public Health in connection with the application for a donor identification card or identification number or in connection with any plasmapheresis procedure. (c) Fees. The Director of the Dade County Department of Public Health shall assess a fee upon each plasmapheresis facility for the purpose of paying the expense which the Department of Public Health shall incur in the implementation and maintenance of the plasma donor identification system. The fee shall be based upon the number of plasmapheresis procedures performed by a plasmapheresis facility, and shall be payable monthly by the facility upon receipt of an invoice from the Dade County Department of Public Health. The fee shall not exceed the amount of fifty cents ($0.50) for each plasmapheresis procedure which has been performed by the facility during the said month. The total of fees collected shall not exceed the cost to the Department of Public Health of administering the plasma donor identification system. (d) Penalties. In addition to the penalties otherwise provided by Ordinance 73-91 [Chapter 6], the following penalties may be imposed by the Director of the Department of Public Health upon his determination that an individual has violated a provision of this section: (1)For a violation by a person who is not a registered donor, a disqualification of that person from becoming a registered donor for a period not exceeding ninety (90) days for each violation. (2)For the first violation by a registered donor, suspension of the donor identification card and number and all the privileges incident thereto for a period not exceeding ninety (90) days. (3)For the second violation by a registered donor, suspension of the donor identification card and number and all the privileges incident thereto for a period not exceeding one (1) year. (4)For the third violation by a registered donor, suspension of the donor identification card and number and all the privileges incident thereto for a period not exceeding five (5) years, or permanent revocation of the donor identification card and registration number and all the privileges incident thereto. (Ord. No. 74-4, §§ 2, 3, 2-5-74; Ord. No. 74-50, § 1, 7-2-74) Editor's note— Ord. No. 74-4, §§ 2, 3, amended Ord. No. 73-91 from which Ch. 6 is derived by adding the provisions codified herein as § 6-4.1 Sec. 6-4.2. Breath analysis required of commercial donors. It shall be unlawful for any commercial blood donor facility in Dade County to extract whole blood or any of its products from a commercial donor unless, immediately prior to said extraction, the facility shall analyze the breath of the donor and determine from such analysis that the blood of the donor does not contain alcohol in excess of seven-one hundredths (0.07) percent, weight per volume. For the purpose of performing the required breath analysis, each commercial blood donor facility in Dade County shall maintain upon the premises thereof such testing materials, equipment, supplies, and personnel as are approved by the State Division of Health of the Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services and as shall be required and approved by the Dade County Department of Public Health. (Ord. No. 74-4, § 5, 2-5-74) Editor's note— Section 5 of Ord. No. 74-4 is included herein as § 6-4.2 at the discretion of the editors. Sec. 6-5. Reporting of communicable disease. Any blood donor facility or employee thereof who shall discover the existence of a communicable disease in a donor shall immediately submit to the Director of the Dade County Department of Public Health a confidential report setting forth the nature of the disease and the name and address and other information sufficient to identify and locate the diseased person. (Ord. No. 73-91, § 5, 10-30-73) Sec. 6-5.1. Procedure for the denial, revocation, suspension, limitation, annulment or denial of renewal of the registration of any blood donor facility or license of blood donor facility personnel. Notice of violation. Whenever the Director of the Department of Public Health or his duly authorized representative finds and determines that there has been a violation of the Dade County Blood Donor Facility Ordinance, he shall give notice of such violation to the party or parties responsible for such violations. Such notice shall be in writing and shall specify the violation and shall prescribe for a reasonable time for compliance, and shall be served upon the party or parties responsible for the violation. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served and binding upon the party or parties responsible and upon the facility involved if a copy is served personally by certified mail, or if after diligent search and inquiry the party or parties responsible for the violation cannot be found or served by personal service or certified mail, a copy of the notice is posted in a conspicuous place on the facility involved. Such notice shall specify that the violation must be corrected within the time specified in the notice and that failure to comply within the time specified may result in the suspension or revocation of the party or parties registration and/or license. Such notice shall inform the party or parties to whom it is directed of the right to apply to the Health Appeals Board for a hearing and review of the matters specified in the notice. (Ord. No. 74-53, § 4, 7-2-74) Editor's note— Ord. No. 74-53, § 4, amended Ord. No. 73-91 from which Ch. 6 is basically derived by adding the provisions included herein as §§ 6-5.1—6.5.3. Sec. 6-5.2. Procedure for the denial, suspension or revocation of any donor identification card. Notice of violation. Whenever the Director of the Department of Public Health or his duly authorized representative finds and determines that there has been a violation of the Dade County Blood Donor Facility Ordinance, he shall give notice of such violation to the party responsible for such violation. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the party responsible for the violation. The notice shall specify the violation and the penalty imposed as provided for in Section 6-4.1(d) of this chapter. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served and binding upon the party responsible, if a copy is served personally or served by certified mail, or if after diligent search and inquiry the party responsible for the violation cannot be found or served by personal service or certified mail, a copy of the notice is published once during each week for four (4) consecutive weeks in some newspaper published in Dade County. The newspaper shall meet such requirements as prescribed by law for such purpose. Such notice shall inform the party to whom it is directed of the right to apply to the Health Appeals Board for a hearing and review of the matters specified in the notice. (Ord. No. 74-53, § 4, 7-2-74) Note—See the editor's note following § 6-5.1 Sec. 6-5.3. Reserved.Editor's note— Ord. No. 80-43, § 2, adopted May 20, 1980, repealed former § 6-5.3. Said former section for appeals of decisions of the Health Director with respect to blood donor facilities and was derived from Ord. No. 74-53, § 4, adopted July 2, 1974. Sec. 6-6. Enforcement, inspection, penalties. It shall be the responsibility of the Director of the Dade County Department of Public Health or his duly authorized representative to enforce the provisions of this chapter throughout Dade County and the Director shall have the duty and authority to promulgate regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. The Dade County Department of Public Health shall make an inspection of each blood donor facility in Dade County not less frequently than once per month for the purpose of determining the existence of any violation of this chapter. If the Director of the Department of Public Health or his designee shall determine that a violation of this chapter or of any regulation promulgated hereunder has occurred, the Director shall take one (1) or more of the following actions: (a)Service upon the person or facility in violation of a citation setting forth the violation and establishing a time within which such violation must be corrected. (b)Initiation of a procedure for the denial, revocation, suspension, limitation, annulment, or denial of renewal of the registration of any blood donor facility or the license of any blood donor facility personnel. (c)The initiation of a judicial procedure for injunctive action against any individual or organization violating this chapter, it being hereby declared that the operation or maintenance of any unregistered blood donor facility or the performance of any blood donor procedure or operation in violation of this chapter or any regulation promulgated hereunder is a nuisance inimical to the public, health, welfare, and safety. (d)Whenever the Director of Public Health shall have determined the existence of a violation of this chapter which constitutes an immediate threat to the health, safety, or welfare of a donor, a potential recipient of blood or plasma, or the public, and such condition cannot or will not be immediately corrected, the Director of Public Health may order the immediate closing of such blood donor facility until such time as the threat is found no longer to exist. (e)Referral of the matter to the State Attorney for criminal action against any person in violation of this chapter. (Ord. No. 73-91, § 6, 10-30-73) Sec. 6-7. Criminal penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine or not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment of not more than sixty (60) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day of a violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. No. 73-91, § 7, 10-30-73)

,Chapter 7 BOATS, DOCKS AND WATERWAYS [1]



,Chapter 8 BUILDING CODE [1]



,Chapter 8A BUSINESS REGULATIONS [1]



,Chapter 8AA CABLE AND COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES PROVIDERS [1]



,Chapter 8B EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT [1]

Sec. 8B-1. Establishment.Sec. 8B-2. Definitions.Sec. 8B-3. Territorial limits for performance of functions.Sec. 8B-4. Powers of the Board of County Commissioners.Sec. 8B-5. Procedure for adoption of ordinances and regulations during disasters or emergencies.Sec. 8B-6. Powers of the Mayor.Sec. 8B-7. Duties of the County Manager.Sec. 8B-8. Duties of the Director of the Office of Emergency Management.Sec. 8B-9. County Department Preparedness Contingency Plans.Sec. 8B-10. Evacuation of Residential Health Care Facilities (RHCFs).Sec. 8B-11. Volunteer and Disaster Assistance Employees.Sec. 8B-12. Penalties.Sec. 8B-13. Emergency Operations Center Management.Sec. 8B-14 Municipal/Divisional Emergency Operations Centers.Sec. 8B-15. Planning related to Special Facilities.Sec. 8B-16. Planning related to gas stations.Sec. 8B-17 Planning related to food stores.Sec. 8B-18. Requirement To Secure Loose Materials.Sec. 8B-1. Establishment. Pursuant to F.S. 252, there is hereby established the Miami-Dade County Office of Emergency Management, the operation of which shall be the responsibility of the County Manager. The duties of the Office of Emergency Management shall be to provide for the effective direction, control and coordination of Miami-Dade County government disaster management services, functional units, and personnel, and provide collaboration with other governments and the private sector, in compliance with the Miami-Dade County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-2. Definitions. When used in Chapter 8B the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: (1)The Board of County Commissioners is the elected legislative body representing all residents of Miami-Dade County and shall herein be referred to as the "Board". (2)The County Manager is the Chief Administrative Officer of Miami-Dade County and shall herein be referred to as the "Manager".(3)The Director of the Office of Emergency Management is the Miami-Dade County official who will execute the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan in Miami-Dade County and shall herein be referred to as the "Director". (4)Disaster shall be defined as any natural or man-made incident that disrupts or damages the social or economic systems or infrastructure of the community and which is so severe that a Local State of Emergency is declared. (5)Emergency shall be defined as any incident, natural or manmade, that disrupts or threatens to disrupt, the social or economic systems or infrastructure of the community in such a manner as to warrant a response action but does not warrant the declaration of Local State of Emergency. (6)The Executive Mayor is the elected Chief Executive Officer of Miami-Dade County and shall herein be referred to as the "Mayor".(7)The Plan refers to the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan written by the Miami-Dade County Office of Emergency Management pursuant to Florida Statutes § 252.38. The Plan establishes the framework through which Miami-Dade County prepares for, responds to, recovers from, and mitigates the impacts of a wide variety of disasters that could adversely affect the health, safety and/or general welfare of the residents of Miami-Dade County. The Plan provides guidance to Miami-Dade County and local officials on procedures, organization, and responsibilities, as well as provides for an integrated and coordinated local, State and federal response. The Plan establishes a method of operation that spans the direction and control of an emergency from initial monitoring through post-disaster response, recovery, and mitigation. (8)Residential Health Care Facilities (RHCFs) are defined as hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, and long-term care facilities pursuant to Florida Statutes § 395.002 and § 400.0060. (9)The State of Florida shall herein be referred to as the "State".(10)The Miami-Dade County Office of Emergency Management shall herein be referred to as the "Office of Emergency Management".(11)The "Miami-Dade Emergency Operations Center (EOC)" shall be defined as the pre-established, secured, and protected facility from which Miami-Dade County coordinates, monitors, and directs countywide emergency response and recovery activities during a threat of, or an actual disaster. (12)"Activation of the EOC" shall be defined as the alert, notification, or mobilization of appropriate department, agency or organizational representatives to the EOC in order to initiate the Plan so as to functionally prepare, mitigate, respond and recover from an incident or disaster. (13)"Lead Agency" shall be defined as the department, agency or organization assigned primary responsibility by the Director to manage and coordinate a specific function pursuant to the Plan. Lead agencies are designated on the basis of their having the most authorities, resources, capabilities, or expertise relative to the accomplishment of the specific function. Lead Agencies will be responsible for maintenance of sections of the Plan related to their assigned function. (14)"Essential employee" shall be defined as a Miami-Dade County employee whose job function(s) is critical to the performance of the employee's department or agency's mission during disaster situations within Miami-Dade County. As such, the absence or non-performance of the employee's job function negatively impacts the department or agency from providing its mission(s) prescribed in the Plan. (15)"Non-essential employee" shall be defined as a Miami-Dade County employee whose job function(s) is not critical to the performance of the employee's department or agency's mission during disaster situations within Miami-Dade County. As such, the absence or non-performance of the employee's job function does not negatively impact the department or agency from providing its mission(s) prescribed in the Plan. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-3. Territorial limits for performance of functions. The Office of Emergency Management shall perform civil defense, mitigation, preparedness, disaster response, and recovery functions within the territorial limits of Miami-Dade County including incorporated municipalities, and, in addition, shall conduct such functions outside of such territorial limits as may be required pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 252, Florida Statutes, and in accordance with State and Miami-Dade County comprehensive emergency management planning. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-4. Powers of the Board of County Commissioners. The Board accepts all powers vested in the Office of Emergency Management as created by and defined in Chapter 252, Florida Statutes. (1) Conduct of Board business in event of a disaster or emergency: If, due to a disaster or emergency as defined herein, it becomes impossible to conduct the affairs of Miami-Dade County government at regular or usual places, the Board, as the legislative body of Miami-Dade County, may meet upon the call of the Chairperson at any place within the territorial limits of Miami-Dade County. If relocation is required due to the effects of a disaster or emergency, the affairs of the Board shall be lawfully conducted at temporary location(s) until normal facilities can be restored. This section does not in any way dismiss the Board's responsibilities under the Florida State Open Government Sunshine Act, as amended. All reasonable attempts must be made to comply with the requirements of Florida Statutes 286.011. (2) Termination of a Local State of Emergency: If a Local State of Emergency has been declared by the Mayor or the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners in the absence of the Mayor or the Manager in the absence of the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners and exceeds thirty (30) days, the Board can terminate the Declaration of a Local State of Emergency by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of those present. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-5. Procedure for adoption of ordinances and regulations during disasters or emergencies. Upon affirmation by the Mayor or the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners in the absence of the Mayor or the Manager in absence of the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners that a disaster or emergency exists which will affect the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of Miami-Dade County, any such ordinance or regulation adopted and promulgated because of such disaster or emergency shall become enforceable immediately upon promulgation. A copy shall be filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court as Clerk of the Miami-Dade County Commission within twenty-four (24) hours of its promulgation. Upon failure to file the ordinance or regulation within twenty-four (24) hours, such ordinance or regulation shall not be deemed to have been adopted because of a disaster or emergency and shall have no effect until filed in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court as Clerk of the Miami-Dade County Commission within a period of fifteen (15) days as heretofore provided. (Ord. No. 99-51, §§ 2, 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-6. Powers of the Mayor. Pursuant to the Code and Florida State law, and to execute the policies and purposes of this Chapter, the Mayor, the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners in the absence of the Mayor or the Manager in the absence of the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners is authorized to: (1)Declare a Local State of Emergency: The Mayor or the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners in the absence of the Mayor may declare a Local State of Emergency for a period of up to thirty (30) days for any or all areas of Miami-Dade County in response to the imminent threat of, or an occurring emergency or disaster. The Mayor or the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners in the absence of the Mayor or the Manager in the absence of the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners must present to the Board and file with the Office of the County Manager an affidavit stating the reasons for the Declaration: (a)If the Declaration is to exceed thirty (30) days the Mayor, or the the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners in the absence of the Mayor or the Manager in the absence of the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners, shall present to the Board an additional affidavit stating the reasons for the extension. (b)A Local State of Emergency may be terminated by executive order once conditions that prompted the declaration are no longer a threat. (2)Ensure the coordination Local, State, or Federal agencies, and private entities to facilitate disaster or emergency operations.(3)The Mayor shall be the official representative of Miami-Dade County and speak on behalf of its actions in response to disasters or emergencies. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-7. Duties of the County Manager. The Manager shall be responsible for the overall emergency management function in Miami-Dade County, and keep the Mayor and the Board advised of any actions. (1)The Manager may mobilize any or all functional parts of Miami-Dade County government, take special actions and put in place all appropriate regulations that will protect the lives and property of the citizens of Miami-Dade County. (2)Once a Local State of Emergency has been declared, the Manager is authorized by the Mayor and the Board to order any or all of the following actions: (a)Employee Recall Order: An order recalling Miami-Dade County employees from vacation, canceling days off, and mobilizing all personnel required for disaster response; (b)Authorize the Department of Procurement to suspend normal leasing and bid procedures to procure space, structures or other items under their normal authority for disaster response determined necessary; (c)Authorize procurement of supplies, equipment, and services without formal bidding procedures;(d)Evacuation Order: A mandatory order(s) directing the evacuation of appropriate area(s) of Miami-Dade County deemed to be in imminent danger from disaster; (e)Curfew: In the period before, or during and immediately after an event, an order imposing a general curfew applicable to Miami-Dade County as a whole, or to geographical area(s) of Miami-Dade County and during hours the Manager deems necessary, and from time to time, to modify the hours the curfew will be in effect and what area(s) it applies to; (f)An order requiring any or all commercial establishments located in area(s) of imminent or actual danger to close and remain closed until further order; (g)An order requiring the closure of any or all bars, taverns, liquor stores, and other business establishments where alcoholic beverages are predominantly sold or otherwise dispensed; provided that with respect to those business establishments which are not primarily devoted to the sales of alcoholic beverages, and in which such alcoholic beverages may be removed or made secure from seizure by the public, the portions thereof utilized for the sale of items other than alcoholic beverages may, at the discretion of the Manager, be allowed to remain open; (h)An order requiring the discontinuance of the sale, distribution or giving away of alcoholic beverages in any or all parts of Miami-Dade County; (i)An order requiring the closure of any or all establishments where firearms and/or ammunition are sold or otherwise dispensed; provided that with respect to those business establishments which are not primarily devoted to the sale of firearms and/or ammunition, and in which such firearms or ammunition may be removed or made secure from possible seizure by the public, the portions thereof utilized for the sale of items other than firearms and ammunition may, at the discretion of the Manager, be allowed to remain open; Note—Florida Statutes § 790.33, as amended, preempts and declares null and void all local ordinances, administrative regulations and rules in the field of firearms and ammunition, with limited exceptions set forth in § 790.33, as amended. (j)An order requiring the discontinuance of the sale, distribution or giving away of gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container other than a gasoline tank properly attached to a gas powered vehicle; (k)An order closing to the public any or all public places including streets, alleys, public ways, schools, parks, beaches, amusement areas and public buildings; (l)In addition to the provisions of Section 8A-5 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, orders to prevent price gouging for any essential commodity, dwelling unit, or storage facility; (m)Orders requesting the conservation of water supplies;(n)The Manager shall cause any proclamation ordered by the Mayor or the Board pursuant to the authority of this chapter to be delivered to all news media within Miami-Dade County, and shall utilize whatever available means to give public notice of such proclamation. (o)Such other orders as are immediately necessary for the protection of life and property; provided, however that any such orders shall, at the earliest practicable time, be presented to the Board for ratification or confirmation in accordance with this chapter. (3)Appoint a Director of the Office of Emergency Management.(4)The Manager will require all Miami-Dade County department and agency directors to develop emergency operations plans, establish staff members who will carry out these plans, represent their agencies during a disaster or emergency, and will make available to the Office of Emergency Management twenty-four (24) hour contact information and a system of notification of key employees. (a)The directors of all Miami-Dade County departments and agencies that are required to report to and function in the EOC as outlined in the Plan, will appoint no less than six (6) staff members who will form the pool of that department's or agency's representatives that will be assigned to report to the EOC upon activation to represent their department or agency or serve as lead agency for a specific function. (b)The directors of all Miami-Dade County departments and agencies will designate each staff member as essential or non-essential as defined in § 8B-2 (14-15). The function and responsibilities of "essential" staff will be outlined in the department's or agency's preparedness plan pursuant to § 8B-9 (1). The directors shall submit a list of all "non-essential" staff members to the Office of Emergency Management each May. These "non-essential" staff members will serve in the Disaster Assistance Employee program. (5)The Manager or designee shall present an annual emergency preparedness report to the Board and the Mayor. This report, to be presented in writing, shall ensure that the Board and the Mayor are informed on the status of the ability of Miami-Dade County to prepare for, respond to, and manage disasters and emergencies. This report is pursuant to the Citizens' Bill of Rights, Section 10 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter and F.S. 252. (6)During training or exercises requiring the participation of any or all Miami-Dade County departments or agencies, it shall be the responsibility of the Manager to ensure appropriate participation by said departments in support of the Plan. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-8. Duties of the Director of the Office of Emergency Management. The Director shall be responsible for the organization, administration and operation of the Office of Emergency Management, subject to the direction and control by the Manager. The Director shall coordinate the activities, services and programs for emergency management and disaster response within Miami-Dade County and shall maintain liaison with other emergency management organizations. (1)The Director or designee shall prepare a Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and program for the emergency management of Miami-Dade County pursuant to F.S. 252, including, but not limited to elements addressing mitigation activities, preparedness, responses to disasters and emergencies, and recovery operations and submit the Plan and program to the Director of the Division of Emergency Management. State of Florida for review and certification for consistency with the State Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and compliance with Federal emergency management mandates. (2)The Director or designee shall monitor and advise the Mayor and Manager of any and all threats, emergencies or disasters that pose a risk to the lives and safety of the residents of Miami-Dade County, proposing solutions for their decision on how best to protect people and property from imminent danger, or from further damage. (3)The Director or designee shall procure supplies and equipment, institute training programs, public preparedness information and education programs, manage and coordinate disaster drills and exercises in accordance with the Plan. (4)Provision of Shelter.(a)Public Shelter Manager: In cases of national emergency, or local disaster or emergency as defined herein, the Director or designee, may appoint Shelter Managers, who shall open public shelters; take charge of all stocks of food, water and other supplies stored in said shelter; admit the public according to Miami-Dade County's sheltering plan; and take whatever control measures are necessary for the protection and safety of the occupants. (b)In the event any of the aforementioned public shelters are not available or no longer suitable for use as a shelter for whatever reason, the Director or designee may cause to be opened any publicly owned building within Miami-Dade County for such use as deemed necessary by the Director or designee. (c)Shelter Managers are authorized to use reasonable restraint against those who refuse to cooperate with the routine of shelter living under emergency conditions. Refusal to carry out the orders of the Shelter Manager and appointed staff shall be deemed an offense punishable by a fine of not more than five-hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment in Miami-Dade County jail of not more than sixty (60) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. (5)The Director or designee shall, in consultation with all municipalities, concerned agencies, public utilities and state offices, develop an evacuation plan for Miami-Dade County. This plan should be usable for any or all types of emergencies or disasters. It should coordinate the efforts of all local entities allowing for rapid execution in the face of a sudden disaster. (6)The Director is authorized by the Board to enter into mutual aid agreements in collaboration with other public and private agencies within the State for reciprocal disaster aid and assistance in the event of a disaster or emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted. (Ord. No. 99-51, §§ 1, 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-9. County Department Preparedness Contingency Plans. To facilitate emergency preparedness planning for Miami-Dade County, as required by Florida Statute 252.38(1)(a), all Miami-Dade County departments, authorities, independent agencies, and constitutional officers shall prepare and periodically revise emergency preparedness contingency plans pursuant to directions and guidelines from the Office of Emergency Management. These emergency preparedness contingency plans must identify a baseline of preparedness for a full range of hazard-risks and potential emergencies and must establish a comprehensive and effective program that maintains the continuity of essential departmental functions during any emergency or other situation that disrupts normal operations. Miami-Dade County shall ensure that such contingency plans are consistent with the Plan. (1)These emergency preparedness contingency plans shall be submitted to the Office of Emergency Management by the last day of March each year in an Office of Emergency Management-approved format and shall address the following areas: (a)A departmental or agency risk assessment and vulnerability analysis;(b)Preparedness and mitigation activities including procedures for employees who perform pre-event activities or shut down critical operations; (c)Operational procedures of the departmental or agency operations center or command post;(d)Direction and control including authorities and responsibilities of key personnel and the chain-of-command;(e)Communications (primary and back-up) systems that will be used to keep employees, on-duty and off-duty, informed of departmental response activities, to coordinate employees in order to carry out departmental missions, to keep in contact with customers and suppliers, and to coordinate with the Miami-Dade EOC; (f)Life safety procedures including employee alert and notification, assembly and accountability, evacuation procedures, employee/family preparedness and welfare; (g)Protection of facilities, equipment, supplies, and vital records;(h)Recovery and restoration of services including employee support, critical asset repair/replacement, and the continuity of operations; (i)Operating procedures for documenting departmental or agency emergency personnel, equipment, services, and materials expenditures and for their recovery or reimbursement from appropriate local, state, and federal sources; (j)Public information;(k)Administration and logistics. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-10. Evacuation of Residential Health Care Facilities (RHCFs). All licensed residential health care facilities (RHCFs) in Miami-Dade County will be required to participate in the Miami-Dade County RHCF program incorporated into the Plan under the guidance of the Office of Emergency Management. (1)RHCFs located in hurricane evacuation zones and that house stretcher bound patients/residents must coordinate aforesaid patients' evacuation according to the Miami-Dade County Stretcher Bound Patient Evacuation Protocol, referred to in the Plan. (2)RHCFs are required to take part in an annual disaster drill coordinated by the Office of Emergency Management.(3)All companies licensed by Miami-Dade County to provide nonemergency medical transportation service are required to participate in the evacuation of RHCFs as instructed by the Office of Emergency Management. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-11. Volunteer and Disaster Assistance Employees.(1)The recruitment, training and use of individuals as volunteer, Disaster Assistance Employees and auxiliary emergency preparedness personnel is hereby authorized, and the Director or designee may recruit, train and assign these personnel in accordance with the Plan and as required by the exigencies of a disaster when these personnel are used. (2)The Director or designee shall mandate training of county employees, activation and assignment of Disaster Assestance Employees as required by the exigencies of a disaster. (3)No individual receiving instruction as a volunteer activated to assist under the provisions of this chapter, who is not already a Miami-Dade County employee, shall be entitled to receive any benefits, compensation or status as a Miami-Dade County employee. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-12. Penalties. It is unlawful for anyone to fail or refuse to obey any such order issued by the Mayor, the Board, the Manager, or the Director or their designee pursuant to this chapter. Anyone convicted of a violation of this section is punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than one hundred and eighty (180) days, or both. (Ord. No. 99-51, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-13. Emergency Operations Center Management.(1)The Director or designee will activate the Miami-Dade EOC in anticipation of, or in response to, a disaster. Pursuant to 8B-7(4)(a), assigned departmental or agency staff members will respond to the EOC when activated. Department directors will ensure that the Office of Emergency Management is maintained with accurate 24-hour contact information for each of these staff members and ensure that appropriate staff report to the EOC in a timely manner, upon activation. The Office of Emergency Management will assist directors to train the staff representatives in their role and function. (2)The Director or designee is responsible for the constant readiness of the Miami-Dade EOC and the alert and notification of all representatives for the activation of the Miami-Dade EOC. (3)In accordance with the Plan, private agencies or organizations may be required by the Director to serve in the Miami-Dade EOC and provide a representative to the Miami-Dade EOC. These agencies or organizations will appoint no less than six (6) staff members who will form the pool of that agency's or organization's representatives that will be assigned to report to the EOC upon activation to represent their agency or organization or serve as lead agency for a specific function. Agency or organization directors will ensure that the Office of Emergency Management is maintained with accurate 24-hour contact information for each of these staff members and ensure that appropriate staff report to the EOC in a timely manner, upon activation. The Office of Emergency Management will assist directors to train the staff representatives in their role and function. (Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-14 Municipal/Divisional Emergency Operations Centers.(1)In accordance with the Plan, all incorporated municipalities within the boundaries of Miami-Dade County will be organized into divisions, determined by the Office Emergency Management. (2)One municipality within each division will be designated by the Director as a Divisional Emergency Operations Center and will be required to send a representative to the Miami-Dade EOC upon activation. (3)When requested by the Director, each Divisional EOC will activate their municipal EOC facility, send a trained representative to the Miami-Dade EOC, and take whatever actions are necessary to mitigate the effects of, assist in the response to, or recovery from, a disaster. (4)Once Divisional EOCs have been activated by the Director, their subordinate municipalities are required to make requests in accordance with the Plan. (Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-15. Planning related to Special Facilities.(1)Special facilities are those institutions or organizations whose populations are dependent upon the institution for transportation.(2)Special facilities are required to have a plan in place to be self sufficient in an emergency that would require evacuation of their facility due to a natural or technological disaster. (3)These institutions include, but are not limited to assisted living facilities, schools (public and private), day care centers, elderly centers or other organizations. (4)The Plan will include provisions to allow these institutions to incorporate within their plans the use of reception centers, alert and notification and family reunification services. (Ord. No. 03-178, § 1, 7-22-03) Sec. 8B-16. Planning related to gas stations.1.This Section shall apply to gas stations located within incorporated or unincorporated Miami-Dade County. Gas station shall be defined in Section 33-1(51) of this Code. 2.Gas stations are required to create and implement a plan in place to provide for the uninterrupted operation of all fuel pumps within twenty-four hours following the declaration of a local state of emergency pursuant to this Chapter (the "Gas Station Emergency Plan"). 3.The Gas Station Emergency Plan shall document the gas station's ability to provide uninterrupted services not later than July 1, 2006 and shall provide, at a minimum: (a)An alternate source of power to operate the pumps during periods of electrical outage (the "Alternate Source"). The Alternate Source shall be sufficient to operate all pumps during normal business hours and may involve one or more temporary or permanent fuel operated generators. (b)In the event that the Alternate Source requires the installation of permanent equipment, a schedule showing the purchase or lease of the equipment and providing installation not later than August 1, 2006. (c)In the event that the Alternate Source requires construction or otherwise the obtaining of a building permit, a schedule for obtaining a permit not later than July 1, 2006 and a certificate of occupancy not later than September 1, 2006. (d)In the event that the Alternate Source requires the delivery of generators from off-site facilities, evidence of the availability of such generators to the gas station, and for delivery to the site of those generators in reasonably foreseeable disaster conditions. (e)A maintenance plan for any and all equipment related to the Alternate Source.(f)Plans for the recall of gas station personnel essential to the task of dispensing essential fuel supplies.(g)Identification of the owner, manager or person having operational control of the gas station and, if different, emergency contact personnel charged with implementing the Plan. 4.Each owner of a gas station shall deliver the required Gas Station Emergency Plan to the Director not later than July 1, 2006. For gas stations which are not in possession of a certificate of use and occupancy as of the effective date of this Section, the required Gas Station Emergency Plan shall be delivered to the Director not later than 90 days following the date of such certificate and shall provide for implementation within 180 days of submission of the plan. 5.The Director shall review each Gas Station Emergency Plan to determine in his or her discretion whether such plan complies with the requirement of this ordinance and otherwise provides for the protection of public safety by allowing for the distribution of fuel during disaster conditions. 6.The Director shall reject any Gas Station Emergency Plan within thirty (30) days of its submission by notifying the person identified in the plan. The Director shall wherever possible identify the reasons for rejection and provide an opportunity to cure. Failure to notify a rejection shall be deemed approval of the plan. 7.Gas stations shall at all times abide by the provisions of the approved Gas Station Emergency Plan, including any and all deadlines set forth in the approved schedule. The Gas Station Emergency Plan shall be in effect for a period of five (5) years and shall be binding on all subsequent owners and operators of the gas station. A new Emergency Gas Station Plan shall be submitted for approval not later than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the plan in effect. 8.In the event of any material change with respect to any of the provisions of the Gas Station Emergency Plan the revisions shall be communicated to the Director in writing, for the Director's approval, wherever possible in advance of the proposed change and in no event later than sixty (60) days following the adoption of the change. 9.Failure to abide by the provisions of this Section shall be punishable by civil fine in the manner established by Chapter 8CC of this Code, with each day of violation constituting a separate offense. The provisions of this Chapter shall also be enforceable through injunctive relief as a means of protection of the public interest through the exercise of the County's police power, and through any other means available at law. To insure compliance, an inspection process and review standards, including provisions for providing expedited post-disaster inspections, shall be set forth in an administrative order to be considered for adoption by this Board within ninety (90) days from the effective date of this ordinance. The Building Official for Miami-Dade County shall adopt standard drawings, permit application and process to assist in the implementation of the requirements of this section. 10.The Director shall be entitled, in his or her discretion, to exempt a gas station from the requirements of this Section based upon criteria to be applied uniformly and approved by resolution of this Board. The criteria may include size, volume and location of the gas station. The County Manager shall make recommendations to this Board for a grant, low interest or interest free program to defray the additional costs of implementing this program by qualified recipients and for identification and registration of all affected gas stations. The recommendation shall identify funding including any available from the State of Florida, FEMA or other federal sources. The criteria for exemption and the recommendations required in this subsection shall be set forth in an administrative order to be considered for adoption by this Board within ninety (90) days from the effective date of this ordinance. The County Manager shall also provide to the Board within ninety (90) days from the effective date of this Section proposed legislative measures to defray the costs of building permits required by Miami-Dade County to implement the provisions of this Section. 11.This Section shall preempt and supersede any inconsistent municipal ordinance to the same effect.12.Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted to curtail, impede or otherwise affect the discretionary authority of the County in the exercise of its police power, administrative or regulatory functions. (Ord. No. 06-40, § 1, 3-23-06) Sec. 8B-17 Planning related to food stores.1.This Section shall apply to food stores located within incorporated or unincorporated Miami-Dade County. For purposes of this Section a food store shall be any business establishment containing more than forty thousand (40,000) square feet of floor area, which sells food supplies at retail to the public including supermarkets and grocery stores. Food stores shall not include restaurants, coffee shops, delicatessens, bakeries or similar establishments which exclusively serve prepared or cooked foods. Food supplies shall mean canned and non-perishable foods and water. 2.Food stores are required to create and implement a plan to provide for the retail sale of food supplies to the public within twenty-four (24) hours following the declaration of a local state of emergency pursuant to this Chapter (the "Food Store Emergency Plan"). 3.The Food Store Emergency Plan shall document the food store's ability to provide for the retail sale of food supplies on an uninterrupted basis not later than August 1, 2006 and shall provide, at a minimum: (a)An alternate source of power (the "Alternate Source") shall be sufficient to provide lighting and ventilation as necessary to open the food store to the general public during normal business hours and sell food supplies. (b)In the event that the Alternate Source requires the installation of permanent equipment, a schedule showing the purchase or lease of the equipment and providing installation not later than August 1, 2006. (c)In the event that the Alternate Source requires construction or otherwise the obtaining of a building permit, a schedule for obtaining a permit not later than July 1, 2006 and a certificate of occupancy not later than August 1, 2006. (d)A maintenance plan for any and all equipment related to the Alternate Source.(e)Plans for the recall of food store personnel essential to the task of dispensing food supplies.(f)Identification of the owner, manager or person having operational control of the food store and, if different, emergency contact personnel charged with implementing the plan. The plan shall also include provisions for use of alternate personnel in the event that primary personnel is affected by the natural disaster. The plan shall also demonstrate sensitivity to the needs of employees and other personnel who may be adversely affected including, where appropriate, provisions for emergency transportation. 4.Each owner of a food store shall deliver the required Food Store Emergency Plan to the Director not later than July 1, 2006. For food stores which are not in possession of a certificate of use and occupancy as of the effective date of this Section, the required Food Store Emergency Plan shall be delivered to the Director not later than 90 days following the date of such certificate and shall provide for implementation within 180 days of submission of the plan. 5.The Director shall review each Food Store Emergency Plan to determine in his or her discretion whether such plan complies with the requirement of this ordinance and otherwise provides for the protection of public safety by allowing for the distribution of food during disaster conditions. 6.The Director shall reject any Food Store Emergency Plan within thirty (30) days of its submission by notifying the person identified in the plan. The Director shall wherever possible identify the reasons for rejection and provide an opportunity to cure. Failure to notify a rejection shall be deemed approval of the plan. 7.Food stores shall at all times abide by the provisions of the approved Food Store Emergency Plan, including any and all deadlines set forth in the approved schedule. The Food Store Emergency Plan shall be in effect for a period of five (5) years and shall be binding on all subsequent owners and operators of the food store. A new Emergency Food Store Plan shall be submitted for approval not later than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the plan in effect. 8.In the event of any material change with respect to any of the provisions of the Food Store Emergency Plan the revisions shall be communicated to the Director in writing, for the Director's approval, wherever possible in advance of the proposed change and in no event later than sixty (60) days following the adoption of the change. 9.Failure to abide by the provisions of this Section shall be punishable by civil fine in the manner established by Chapter 8CC of this Code, with each day of violation constituting a separate offense. The provisions of this Chapter shall also be enforceable through injunctive relief as a means of protection of the public interest through the exercise of the County's police power, and through any other means available at law. 10.The Director shall be entitled, in his or her discretion, to exempt a food store from the requirements of this Section based upon criteria to be applied uniformly and approved by resolution of this Board. The criteria may include size, volume and location of the food store. The Building Official for Miami-Dade County shall adopt standard drawings, permit application and process to assist in the implementation of the requirements of this Section. The County Manager shall also provide to the Board within ninety (90) days from the effective date of this Section proposed legislative measures to defray the costs of building permits required by Miami-Dade County to implement the provisions of this Section. 11.This Section shall preempt and supersede any inconsistent municipal ordinance to the same effect.12.Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted to curtail, impede or otherwise affect the discretionary authority of the County in the exercise of its police power, administrative or regulatory functions. (Ord. No. 06-41, § 1, 3-23-06) Sec. 8B-18. Requirement To Secure Loose Materials.(1) Definitions: (A) Severe weather advisory: a tropical storm warning, hurricane watch or hurricane warning. (B) Severe weather event: a tropical storm or hurricane. (C) Loose Object: any object contained in any outdoor location of any residential, commercial, and industrial property in incorporated and unincorporated Miami-Dade County that may become windborne during a severe weather event including but not limited to outdoor furniture such as chairs and tables, display racks, bicycles, toys, loose debris, bulky waste, gardening supplies, household items, and business or industrial supplies or materials. Loose objects that are covered by the requirements of County Code Section 8-16 relating to Building Code requirements for maintenance of construction sites shall not be governed by this Section and will be governed by Section 8-16 of the County Code. (2) Requirement To Secure Loose Objects When Severe Weather Advisory Is Issued When a severe weather advisory is issued for Miami-Dade County, or any portion thereof, any loose object as defined herein shall be secured by either: (a) storage of such loose object in a building or structure or (b) bracing, bundling or fastening such loose object to a fixed structure or otherwise in a manner sufficient to prevent such loose object from becoming windborne during a severe weather event or in such manner determined by the County or municipal official charged with enforcing this requirement that will prevent such loose object from being windborne during a severe weather event. (3) Enforcement; Penalties (A)Failure to abide by the provisions of this Section shall be punishable by civil fine in the manner established by Chapter 8CC of this Code, with each day of violation constituting a separate offense. The provisions of this Chapter shall also be enforceable through injunctive relief as a means of protection of the public interest through the exercise of the County's police power, and through any other means available at law. (B)This Section shall preempt and supersede any inconsistent municipal ordinance to the same effect.(C)Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted to curtail, impede or otherwise affect the discretionary authority of the County in the exercise of its police power, administrative or regulatory functions. (Ord. No. 06-123, § 1, 9-12-06)

,Chapter 8C BUILDING SECURITY MEASURES [1]

Sec. 8C-1. Provisions for parking lots illumination, air conditioning condenser unit security, and public swimming pools, spas and hot tub barriers and installation of guardrails and other traffic barriers for parking lots to be set forth in this chapter and the Florida Building Code.Sec. 8C-2. Application, enforcement, and exemptions.Sec. 8C-3. Illumination for open parking lots, alleys and access thereto and parking and nonenclosed areas under or within buildings.Sec. 8C-4. Public swimming pool, spa and hot tub barriers.Sec. 8C-5. Air Conditioning Condenser Units Securing Methods.Sec. 8C-6. Guardrails for parking lots adjacent to or abutting bodies of water.Sec. 8C-1. Provisions for parking lots illumination, air conditioning condenser unit security, and public swimming pools, spas and hot tub barriers and installation of guardrails and other traffic barriers for parking lots to be set forth in this chapter and the Florida Building Code. This chapter prescribes requirements for illumination for open parking lots, alleys and access thereto and parking under or within buildings for all buildings and structures, air conditioning condenser unit security and barriers for new construction of public swimming pools, spas and hot tubs and installation of guardrails and other traffic barriers for parking lots abutting bodies of water. (Ord. No. 01-196, § 1, 11-20-01; Ord. No. 03-214, § 2, 10-7-03; Ord. No. 12-84, § 1, 10-2-12) Sec. 8C-2. Application, enforcement, and exemptions. The provisions of this chapter, except where otherwise provided, shall apply to the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County. It is provided, however, that the municipalities may enact more restrictive regulations than set forth in this chapter. The enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the local building official. Except for certain exemptions for government facilities as expressly provided, Section 8C-3 below shall apply to existing occupancies as well as those constructed subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. Every new and existing building for the purpose of this Chapter shall be classified in accordance with Chapter 3, "Occupancy Classification" of the Florida Building Code. Whenever there is any uncertainty as to the classification of a building, the Building Official for purposes of this chapter shall have the authority to make the determination of the classification within which it falls. (Ord. No. 01-196, § 1, 11-20-01; Ord. No. 12-84, § 2, 10-2-12) Sec. 8C-3. Illumination for open parking lots, alleys and access thereto and parking and nonenclosed areas under or within buildings.(a) Generally: (1)This section applies to new construction and all existing buildings.(2)Open parking lots, alleys, and access thereto shall be illuminated as set forth below. For purposes of this paragraph, alley is defined as a narrow vehicular thoroughfare up to twenty-five (25) feet in width upon which service entrances or buildings abut and not generally used as a thoroughfare for general traffic; provided, however, alleys shall not include public rights-of-way. (b) Groups A (Assembly), D (Day Care) and E (Educational) occupancies: (1)Open parking lots and access thereto shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1 foot-candle on the parking surface from dusk until dawn; provided, however, the lighting level may be reduced by fifty (50) percent on non-business days and commencing thirty (30) minutes after the termination of business on each operating day. The uniformity ratio shall not exceed a twelve to one ratio (12:1) maximum to minimum foot-candles. This provision shall not apply to governmental facilities not generally open to the public, and shall apply to those governmental facilities that are generally open to the public only during the dusk-to-dawn hours such facilities are open. (2)Parking and nonenclosed areas under or within buildings at grade shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1 foot-candle of light on the parking and walking surfaces from dusk until dawn and the ratio of maximum to minimum illumination in foot-candles shall not exceed twelve to one (12:1); provided, however, the lighting level may be reduced by fifty (50) percent on non-business days and thirty (30) minutes after the termination of business one each operating day. This provision shall not apply to governmental facilities not generally open to the public, and shall apply to those governmental facilities that are generally open to the public only during the dusk-to-dawn hours such facilities are open. (3)Alleys shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1/3 foot-candle on the alley surface from dusk to dawn. The uniformity ratio shall not exceed a twelve to one (12:1) maximum to minimum foot-candles. This provision shall not apply to governmental facilities not generally open to the public, and shall apply to those governmental facilities that are generally open to the public only during the dusk-to-dawn hours such facilities are open. (c) Groups F (Factory Industrial), H (Hazardous), I (Institutional), S (Storage) and R4 (Residential care/assisted living facilities) occupancies: (1)Open parking lots and access thereto shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 0.5 foot-candle on the parking surface from dusk until dawn; provided, however, the lighting level may be reduced by fifty (50) percent on non-business days and commencing thirty (30) minutes after the termination of business on each operating day. The uniformity ratio shall not exceed a twelve to one ratio (12:1) maximum to minimum foot-candles. (2)Alleys shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1/3 foot-candle on the alley surface from dusk to dawn. The uniformity ratio shall not exceed a twelve to one (12:1) maximum to minimum foot-candles. This provision shall not apply to governmental facilities not generally open to the public, and shall apply to those governmental facilities that are generally open to the public only during the dusk-to-dawn hours such facilities are open. (3)Parking and nonenclosed areas under or within buildings at grade shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1 foot-candle of light on the parking and walking surfaces from dusk until dawn and the ratio of maximum to minimum illumination in foot-candles shall not exceed twelve to one (12:1) provided, however, the lighting level may be reduced by fifty (50) percent on non-business days and commencing thirty (30) minutes after the termination of business on each operating day. This provision shall not apply to governmental facilities not generally open to the public, and shall apply to those governmental facilities that are generally open to the public only during the dusk-to-dawn hours such facilities are open. (4)The area immediately outside of exterior doors shall have security illumination and shall be activated during the dark period of every day. (d) Group B (Business) and M (Mercantile) occupancies: (1)Open parking lots and access thereto shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1.0 foot-candle on the parking surface from dusk until dawn; provided, however, the lighting level may be reduced by fifty (50) percent on non-business days and commencing thirty (30) minutes after the termination of business on each operating day. The uniformity ratio shall not exceed a twelve to one ratio (12:1) maximum to minimum foot-candles. (2)Alleys shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1/3 foot-candle on the alley surface from dusk to dawn. The uniformity ratio shall not exceed a twelve to one (12:1) maximum to minimum foot-candles. This provision shall not apply to governmental facilities not generally open to the public, and shall apply to those governmental facilities that are generally open to the public only during the dusk-to-dawn hours such facilities are open. (3)Parking and nonenclosed areas under, or within buildings shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1 foot-candle of light on the walking and parking surfaces from dusk until dawn, and the ratio of maximum to minimum illumination in foot-candles shall not exceed twelve to one (12:1); provided, however, the lighting level may be reduced by fifty (50) percent on non-business days and commencing thirty (30) minutes after the termination of business on each operating day. It is provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to governmental facilities not generally open to the public, and shall apply to those governmental facilities that are generally open to the public only during the dusk-to-dawn hours such facilities are open. (4)The area immediately outside of exterior doors shall have security illumination and shall be activated during the dark period of every day. (e) Group R1 (Residential transient) and R2 (Residential multiple dwelling) occupancies: (1)Open parking lots and access thereto shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1.0 foot-candle on the parking surface from dusk until dawn. The uniformity ratio shall not exceed a twelve to one ratio (12:1) maximum to minimum foot-candles. Alleys shall be provided with a maintained minimum of one-third (1/3) foot-candle on the alley surface from dusk to dawn. (2)Parking and nonenclosed areas under, or within buildings shall be provided with a maintained minimum of 1.0 foot-candle of light on the walking and parking surfaces from dusk until dawn, and the ratio of maximum to minimum illumination in foot-candles shall not exceed twelve to one (12:1). (Ord. No. 01-196, § 1, 11-20-01) Sec. 8C-4. Public swimming pool, spa and hot tub barriers. All new construction of public swimming pools, spas and hot tubs shall be provided with a permanent barrier complying with the following: (1)The top of the barrier shall be at least forty-eight (48) inches above grade measured on the side of the barrier which faces away from the swimming pool. The maximum vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of the barrier shall be two (2) inches measured on the side of the barrier which faces away from the swimming pool. Where the top of the pool structure. Where the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, the maximum vertical clearance between the top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier shall be four (4) inches. (2)Opening in the barrier shall not allow passage of 4-inch diameter sphere.(3)Solid barriers which do not have openings shall not contain indentations or protrusions except for normal construction tolerances and tooled masonry joints. (4)Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is less than forty-five (45) inches, the horizontal members shall located on the swimming pool side of the fence. Spacing between vertical members shall not exceed 1¾ inches in width. (5)Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and the distance between the tops of the horizontal member is forty-five (45) inches or more, spacing between vertical members shall not exceed four (4) inches. Where there are decorative cutouts within vertical members, spacing within the cutouts shall not exceed 1¾ inches in width. (6)Maximum mesh size for chain link fences shall be a 2¼ inches square unless the fence is provided with slats fastened at the top or the bottom which reduce the openings to no more than 1¾ inches. (7)Where the barrier is composed of diagonal members, the maximum opening formed by the diagonal members shall be no more than 1¾ inches. (8)Pedestrian access gates with direct access to the pool, spa or hot tub, shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices. The release mechanism on all such devices shall be located a minimum of fifty-four (54) inches above the pool deck floor or exterior grade level. (9)Where the release mechanism of the self-latching device is located less than fifty-four (54) inches from the bottom of the gate, the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate at least three (3) inches below the top of the gate and barrier shall have no opening greater than ½ inch within eighteen (18) inches of the release mechanism. (Ord. No. 01-196, § 4, 11-20-01) Sec. 8C-5. Air Conditioning Condenser Units Securing Methods. All installations of exterior air conditioning condenser units in single-family and fee simple townhomes in unincorporated Miami-Dade County shall comply with the following: (1)An anchor bolt with a minimum of 500 pounds pull-out resistance shall secure the air conditioning condenser unit from within the unit through to the concrete slab on which the unit rests. (Ord. No. 03-214, § 3, 10-7-03) Sec. 8C-6. Guardrails for parking lots adjacent to or abutting bodies of water.(a)On all parking lots adjacent to or abutting a canal, a lake or other body of water, a guardrail or other form of traffic barrier tested and approved for crashworthiness by the Federal Highway Administration shall be installed, after obtaining a building permit, to protect any vehicle from entering the canal, lake, or other body of water. (b)This section applies to new construction and to all existing parking lots adjacent to or abutting bodies of water. All existing parking lots, as of the adoption of this ordinance, that are not in compliance with this section, shall have a period of eighteen months from the adoption of this ordinance in which to comply. (c)The provisions of this section shall only apply to the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade. (Ord. No. 12-84, § 3, 10-2-12)

,Chapter 8CC CODE ENFORCEMENT [1]

Sec. 8CC-1. Civil offenses and penalties; hearing officers.Sec. 8CC-2. Qualifications of officers and removal; organization.Sec. 8CC-3. Enforcement procedures.Sec. 8CC-4. Civil penalties and related terms construed.Sec. 8CC-5. Rights of violators; payment of fine; right to appeal; failure to pay and correct, or to appeal.Sec. 8CC-5.1. Miami-Dade County Diversion Program.Sec. 8CC-6. Scheduling and conduct of hearing.Sec. 8CC-7. Recovery of unpaid civil penalties; unpaid penalty to constitute a lien; interest to be paid on liens; foreclosure; prohibition of the issuance of permits, licenses, certificates of use and occupancy, or zoning approvals to violators with unpaid civil penalties or liens.Sec. 8CC-8. Appeals.Sec. 8CC-9. Provisions contained herein are supplemental; general penalty for failure to correct violations.Sec. 8CC-10. Schedule of civil penalties.Sec. 8CC-10.1. Code Enforcement Technology Trust Fund.Sec. 8CC-11. Enforcement procedure for municipalities.Sec. 8CC-1. Civil offenses and penalties; hearing officers. The violation of any County ordinance listed in Section 8CC-10 of this chapter shall constitute a civil offense punishable by civil penalty in the amount prescribed in Section 8CC-10 and as modified by Section 8CC-4 of this chapter. Accordingly, there is hereby created and established a code enforcement position to be filled by hearing officers to enforce the ordinances listed in Section 8CC-10 which are contained in and enacted pursuant to this Code. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(1), 5-21-85) Sec. 8CC-2. Qualifications of officers and removal; organization.(a)The County Manager shall create a Hearing Officer Review Board, comprised of three (3) members from code enforcement departments, one (1) member from the County Clerk's Office, two (2) members from the public at large, and one (1) member from the Office of the County Attorney. The duty of the Board shall be to recommend new Hearing Officer appointments and review, on an annual basis, the performance of Hearing Officers and, as necessary recommend the removal or reappointment of Hearing Officers to the County Manager. (b)The Hearing Officer Review Board shall use as its basis for recommendation for appointment, criteria to be developed by the Review Board for approval and concurrence of the County Manager and Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners. Such appointments by the County Manager shall be submitted to the Clerk of the Board for ratification by the Clerk. (c)Hearing Officers shall be residents of Miami-Dade County who possess outstanding reputations for civic pride, interest, integrity, responsibility, and business or professional ability. Appointments shall be made by the County Manager or his designee upon recommendation of the Hearing Officer Review Board and on the basis of experience or interest in code enforcement. Such appointments shall be submitted to the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners for ratification by the Clerk. (d)The County Manager or his designee shall appoint as many Hearing Officers as are deemed necessary. Appointments shall be made for a term of two (2) years. Upon recommendation of the Hearing Officer Review Board, any Hearing Officer may be reappointed at the discretion of the County Manager, subject to ratification by the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners. There shall be no limit on the number of reappointments that may be given to any individual Hearing Officer; provided, however, that a determination as to removal or reappointment must be made for each individual Hearing Officer at the end of each of his or her two-year term. The County Manager shall have authority to remove individual Hearing Officers with or without cause. Appointments to fill any vacancy shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term. (e)The Miami-Dade County Attorney's Office shall serve as general counsel to the Hearing Officers. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(2), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 86-22, § 1, 3-16-86; Ord. No. 90-6, § 1, 2-6-90; Ord. No. 99-55, § 1, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 05-19, § 1, 1-27-05; Ord. No. 09-17, § 1, 3-3-09) Sec. 8CC-3. Enforcement procedures.(a)For the purposes of this chapter, a "Code Inspector" is defined to be any agent or employee of Miami-Dade County whose duty is to assure the enforcement of and compliance with the Code of Miami-Dade County. Prior to being provided the authority to initiate enforcement proceedings under this Chapter, a Code Inspector shall be required to successfully complete a criminal background investigation as prescribed by administrative order of the County Manager. Subject to the requirements of Section 8CC-11 below, a "Code Inspector" is also defined to be any agent or employee of a municipality who has been authorized pursuant to that Section to assure code compliance. Municipal employees shall also be required to successfully complete a criminal background investigation prior to being provided authority to initiate enforcement proceedings under this Chapter. (b)Code Inspectors shall have the authority to initiate enforcement proceedings as provided below. No Hearing Officer shall have the power to initiate such proceedings. (c)For the purposes of this chapter, "violators" shall be deemed to be those persons or entities legally responsible for the violation of the ordinances listed in Section 8CC-10 (d)A Code Inspector who finds a violation of those ordinances of this Code listed in Section 8CC-10 shall determine a reasonable time period within which the violator must correct the violation. This determination shall be based on considerations of fairness; practicality; ease of correction; ability to correct; severity of violation; nature, extent and probability of danger or damage to the public; and other relevant factors relating to the reasonableness of the time period prescribed. A time for correction need not be specified if the violation is deemed to be an uncorrectable violation. (e)A Code Inspector who finds such a violation shall issue a civil violation notice to the violator. Service shall be effected by delivering the civil violation notice to the violator by: (1)First Class Mail, return receipt requested, or other available delivery confirmation, to the owner of the property in question or such other violator as the Code Inspector shall cite; A signed return receipt or other delivery confirmation shall be conclusive of service of the civil violation notice. (2)First Class Mail without return receipt provided, however, that no conclusive effect shall be ascribed to this method absent proof of delivery. Service in this matter shall be evidenced by a properly executed proof of mailing, affidavit confirming the first class mailing, or certificate of mailing; (3)If the notice is sent to the owner of the property in question, as provided in paragraph (e)(1), at the address listed in the records of the property appraiser's office for tax notices, and at any other address provided to the County by such owner, and if the notice is returned as unclaimed or refused, service may be effected by posting said notice in a conspicuous location at the premises where the violation occurred and/or at the owner's address(es) and combined with sending the notice by first class mail directed to the address(es) furnished to the local government. Service in this matter shall be evidenced by a properly executed proof of mailing, affidavit confirming the first class mailing, or certificate of mailing and shall be conclusive of service of the civil violation notice; (4)Hand delivery by the sheriff or other law enforcement officer, code inspector, or other person designated by the local governing body; (5)Leaving the notice at the violator's usual place of residence with any person residing therein who is above 15 years of age and informing such person of the contents of the notice; or (6)In the case of commercial premises, leaving the notice with the manager or other person in charge. The time for compliance stated in the notice shall commence upon service under this section. Service under subsection (e)(3) shall be deemed proper and the time for compliance shall commence on the latter of the posting or mailing of the notice. (f)The civil violation notice shall include but not be limited to the following:(1)Date of issuance.(2)Name of Code Inspector and division or department issuing the notice.(3)Name and address of the violator.(4)Section number of the Code Section that has been violated.(5)Brief description of the nature of the violation, including location, date, and time of violation.(6)Amount of the civil penalty for which the violator may be liable.(7)Instructions and due date for paying the civil fine or filing for an administrative hearing before a Hearing Officer to appeal the civil fine. (8)Time within which the violation must be corrected if applicable.(9)Notice that each day of continued violation after the time period for correction has run shall be deemed a continuing violation subject to additional penalty in the same amount, without the need for additional notices of violation. (10)Notice that the filing of a request for an administrative hearing will toll the accrual of continuing violation penalties.(11)Notice that failure to request an administrative hearing within twenty (20) days, or within the specified time period listed for a violation of a specific Section of the Code, after service of the civil violation notice shall constitute a waiver of the violator's right to an administrative hearing before the Hearing Officer, and that such waiver shall constitute an admission of violation. (12)Notice that the violator may be liable for the reasonable costs of the administrative hearing should he be found guilty of the violation. (13)Notice that the violator may be liable for the County's costs and expenses incurred as a result of investigation, enforcement, testing or monitoring should the violator be found guilty of the violation. (g)A Code Inspector is authorized to record in the public record the civil violation notice or a notice of violation which is based upon the civil violation notice. The recording of the civil violation or a notice of violation under this section shall not act as or be a lien on the property and shall not act as a notice of a lien on the property but shall merely act as public notice of the existence of the violation. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(3), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 86-22, § 1, 3-18-86; Ord. No. 90-6, § 1, 2-6-90; Ord. No. 94-38, § 1, 3-3-94; Ord. No. 94-207, § 3, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 99-55, § 2, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 99-55, § 2, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 00-53, § 1, 5-9-00; Ord. No. 05-19, § 2, 1-27-05; Ord. No. 09-17, § 1, 3-3-09) Sec. 8CC-4. Civil penalties and related terms construed.(a)Penalties for violations of the ordinances to be enforced by this chapter shall be in the amount prescribed in the schedule of civil penalties in Section 8CC-10 (b)An "uncorrectable violation" is a violation which cannot be remedied after the violation has been committed because the violation constitutes a single prohibited act rather than an ongoing condition or circumstance. Each reoccurrence of an uncorrectable violation shall constitute a separation violation and shall subject the violator to an additional penalty in the same amount as that prescribed for the original violation. If, however, a violator has been once found guilty of an uncorrectable violation, and causes the same uncorrectable violation to occur a second time, each reoccurrence of the uncorrectable violation by such violator shall constitute a "repeat violation" as provided in Section 8CC-4(d). (c)"Continuing violations" are those violations which remain uncorrected beyond the reasonable time period for correction contained in either the civil violation notice or the final order of the Hearing Officer, whichever is applicable. For each day of continued violation after the time for correction has run, an additional penalty in the same amount as that prescribed for the original violation shall be added. The maximum total penalty for any one (1) continuing violation shall be fixed at twenty (20) times the original penalty amount, provided, however, that continuing violations of the provisions of Section 33-107 relating to murals shall be fixed at thirty (30) times the original penalty amount. When the maximum penalty for a continuing violation of the provisions of Section 33-107 relating to murals has accrued, the violation shall be referred to the county attorney's office for appropriate enforcement action. (d)A "repeat violation" is a recurring violation of an ordinance by a violator who has previously been guilty of the same violation within the last five (5) years. In the case of correctable violations, a repeat violation can occur only after correction of the previous violation has been made. For the first repeat violation, the amount of the civil penalty shall be double the amount of penalty prescribed for the original violation by Section 8CC-10. The amount of civil penalty due for each subsequent repeat violation shall be double the amount of penalty due for the first day of the immediately preceding violation, provided that the maximum penalty payable for the first day of any one (1) repeat violation shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (e)A repeat violation which remains uncorrected beyond the time prescribed for correction in the civil violation notice shall be treated as a continuing violation, and the additional penalty for each day of continued violation shall be equal to the doubled amount due for the first day of the repeat violation. (f)Continuing violation penalties shall accrue from the date of correction given in the civil violation notice until the correction is made and payment of the fine is received if a request for administrative hearing is not timely filed. If the named violator requests an administrative hearing on a correctable violation and loses his appeal, the Hearing Officer shall determine a reasonable time period within which correction of the violation must be made, based on the considerations set forth in Section 8CC-3(d). If correction is not made within the period set by the Hearing Officer, continuing violation penalties shall begin after the time for correction has run. No continuing violation penalties shall accrue during the time period from the date of the civil violation notice until the date of the administrative hearing, if the named violator timely requests an administrative hearing to appeal the decision of the Code Inspector. Continuing violation penalties cannot be imposed by the Hearing Officer for uncorrectable violations. (g)Continuing violation penalties shall be assessed by the hearing officer upon the filing of an Affidavit of Noncompliance by the Code Inspector. The violator may request an administrative hearing, which hearing shall be strictly limited to the amount of the continuing violation based upon the length of time the violation continued to exist. Upon the filing of the Affidavit of Non-Compliance, the Clerk shall send a Notice of Assessment of Continuing Penalties to the violator by first class mail, at the last known address of the violator. Said notice shall include but not be limited to the following: (1)The date of issuance.(2)Department or division issuing the original notice.(3)Section number of Code that has been violated.(4)Amount of continuing penalty to be assessed by the hearing officer.(5)Notice of right to request an administrative hearing and instructions on how to file for the administrative hearing.(6)Notice that failure to request an administrative hearing within twenty (20) days after the receipt of the Notice of Assessment shall constitute a waiver of the violator's right to the administrative hearing. (7)Notice that the administrative hearing is strictly limited to the amount of the continuing penalty based solely upon the length of time the violation continued to exist but in no case in excess of the maximum set forth in the Code. (8)Notice that the violator shall be liable for the reasonable costs of the administrative hearing if the violator is unsuccessful at the hearing. (h)Civil penalties assessed pursuant to this chapter are due and payable to Miami-Dade County on the last day of the period allowed for the filing of an appeal from the Hearing Officer's decision, or, if proper appeal is made, when the appeal has been finally decided adversely to the named violator. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(4), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 90-6, § 1, 2-6-90; Ord. No. 93-71, § 1, 7-15-93; Ord. No. 99-55, § 3, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 00-53, § 2, 5-9-00; Ord. No. 05-19, § 3, 1-27-05; Ord. No. 07-91, § 4, 7-10-07) Sec. 8CC-5. Rights of violators; payment of fine; right to appeal; failure to pay and correct, or to appeal.(a)A violator who has been served with a civil violation notice or notice of assessment shall elect either to:(1)Pay the civil penalty in the manner indicated on the notice, and correct the violation within the time specified on the notice (if applicable); or (2)Request an administrative hearing before a Hearing Officer to appeal the decision of the Code Inspector which resulted in the issuance of the civil violation notice or notice of assessment. (b)Appeal by administrative hearing of the notice of violation shall be accomplished by filing a request in writing to the address indicated on the notice, within the time limit stipulated in the specified Code Section which is enforced pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or no later than twenty (20) calendar days after the service of the notice, whichever is earlier. (c)If the named violator after notice fails to pay the civil penalty and correct the violation within the time specified (if applicable), or fails to timely request an administrative hearing before a Hearing Officer, the Hearing Officer shall be informed of such failure by report from the Code Inspector. If the named violator pays the civil penalty for a correctable violation but does not correct that violation within the time specified, each day that the violation continues beyond such specified time shall constitute a continuing violation. Failure of the named violator to appeal the decision of the Code Inspector within the prescribed time period shall constitute a waiver of the violator's right to administrative hearing before the Hearing Officer. A waiver of the right to administrative hearing shall be treated as an admission of the violation and penalties may be assessed accordingly. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(5), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 86-22, § 1, 3-18-86; Ord. No. 90-6, § 1, 2-6-90; Ord. No. 94-207, § 3, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 05-19, § 4, 1-27-05) Sec. 8CC-5.1. Miami-Dade County Diversion Program. Notwithstanding the provisions of 8CC-5, a violator who has been served with a civil violation notice may enter the Miami-Dade County Diversion Program, pursuant to Implementing Order of the Board of County Commissioners, provided the civil violation notice is issued for the violation of an ordinance listed in the table below, which may be amended from time to time. The "descriptions of violations" below are for informational purposes only and are not meant to limit or define the nature of the violations or the subject matter of the listed Code sections, except to the extent that different types of violations of the same Code section may carry different civil penalties. To determine the exact nature of any activity proscribed or required by this Code, the relevant Code section must be examined. (Ord. No. 10-52, § 9, 9-21-10) Sec. 8CC-6. Scheduling and conduct of hearing.(a)Upon receipt of a named violator's timely request for an administrative hearing, the Hearing Officer shall set the matter down for hearing on the next regularly scheduled hearing date or as soon thereafter as possible or as mandated in the specified Code Section which is enforced pursuant to this chapter. (b)The Hearing Officer shall send a notice of hearing by first class mail to the named violator at his last known address. The notice of hearing shall include but not be limited to the following: (1)Name of the Code Inspector who issued the notice.(2)Factual description of alleged violation.(3)Date of alleged violation.(4)Section of the Code allegedly violated.(5)Place, date and time of the hearing.(6)Right of violator to be represented by a lawyer.(7)Right of violator to present witnesses and evidence.(8)Notice that failure of violator to attend hearing may result in civil penalty being assessed against him.(9)Notice that requests for continuances will not be considered if not received by the Hearing Officer at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date set for hearing. (c)The Hearing Officers shall call hearings on a monthly basis or upon the request of the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners. No hearing shall be set sooner than twenty (20) calendar days from the date of service of the notice of violation. (d)A hearing date shall not be postponed or continued unless a request for continuance, showing good cause for such continuance, is received in writing by the Hearing Officer at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date set for the hearing. (e)All hearings of the Hearing Officer shall be open to the public. All testimony shall be under oath. Assuming proper notice, a hearing may proceed in the absence of the named violator. (f)The proceedings at the hearing shall be recorded and may be transcribed at the expense of the party requesting the transcript.(g)The Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners shall provide clerical and administrative personnel as may be reasonably required by each Hearing Officer for the proper performance of his duties. (h)Each case before a Hearing Officer shall be presented by the County Manager or his designee.(i)The hearing need not be conducted in accordance with the formal rules relating to evidence and witnesses. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if the Hearing Officer finds it competent and reliable, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule to the contrary. (j)Each party shall have the right to call and examine witnesses; to introduce exhibits; to cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues even though that matter was not covered in the direct examination; to impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him to testify; and to rebut the evidence against him. (k)The Hearing Officer shall make findings of fact based on evidence of record. The Hearing Officer shall make the findings of fact immediately upon conclusion of the hearing. Once commenced, no hearing shall be deferred, however, the violator shall have the option to request a reschedule of the hearing. A request to reschedule shall only be considered prior to the commencement of testimony and presentation of evidence. In order to make a finding upholding the Code Inspector's decision, the Hearing Officer must find that a preponderance of the evidence indicates that the named violator was responsible for the violation of the relevant Section of the Code as charged for purposes of a civil violation notice, or that the violation continued to exist for the time period set out in the notice of assessment, for purposes of a notice of assessment. (l)If the named violator is found guilty of the violation, or if the violation is found to be a continuing violation pursuant to a notice of assessment he shall pay the reasonable costs of the administrative hearing and the costs and expenses of the County for investigation, enforcement, testing, or monitoring. The costs and expenses of the County for investigation, enforcement, testing, or monitoring shall be calculated and submitted to the Hearing Officer, to be attached to the final order for amount owed, in standard format as prescribed by departmental administrative orders of the County Manager. All costs of enforcement shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the administrative hearing unless an alternate timeframe is established by the department. (m)The fact-finding determination of the Hearing Officer for purposes of a civil violation notice shall be limited to whether the violation alleged did occur and, if so, whether the person named in the civil violation notice can be held responsible for that violation. The fact-finding determination of the hearing officer for purposes of a notice of assessment shall be strictly limited to length of time that the violation existed. Based upon this fact-finding determination, the Hearing Officer shall either affirm or reverse the decision of the Code Inspector. If the Hearing Officer affirms the decision of the Code Inspector with respect to a civil violation notice, the Hearing Officer, pursuant to Section 8CC-4(f), shall determine a reasonable time period within which correction of the violation must be made, provided however, that such time period shall be no more than thirty (30) days. If the Hearing Officer reverses the decision of the Code Inspector and finds the named violator not responsible for the Code violation alleged in the civil violation notice, the named violator shall not be liable for the payment of any civil penalty, absent reversal of the Hearing Officer's findings pursuant to Section 8CC-8(a). If the decision of the Hearing Officer is to affirm, then the following elements shall be included: (1)Amount of civil penalty.(2)Administrative costs of hearing.(3)Date by which the violation must be corrected to prevent imposition of continuing violation penalties (if applicable).(n)The Hearing Officer shall have the power to:(1)Adopt procedures for the conduct of hearings.(2)Subpoena alleged violators and witnesses for hearings; subpoenas may be served by the Miami-Dade County Sheriff's Department or by the staff of the Hearing Officer. (3)Subpoena evidence.(4)Take testimony under oath.(5)Assess and order the payment of civil penalties as provided herein.(o)(1)A Hearing Officer shall postpone and shall not conduct a hearing if the named violator, prior to the scheduled hearing date, files with a duly authorized County board of appropriate jurisdiction, if one exists, an administrative appeal concerning the interpretation or application of any technical provisions of the Code Section allegedly violated. It shall be the responsibility of the violator to provide evidence at the time of the hearing to show that such administrative appeal has been filed with the County board of appropriate jurisdiction. However, once an issue had been determined by a Hearing Officer in a specific case, that issue may not be further reviewed by a County board in that specific case. A named violator waives his right to administrative appeal to other County boards if the violator does not apply for such appeal prior to the violator's code enforcement hearing before the Hearing Officer. (2)Upon exhaustion of a timely filed administrative appeal and finalization of the administrative order by such board, the Hearing Officer may exercise all powers given to him by this chapter. The Hearing Officer shall not, however, exercise any jurisdiction over such alleged Code violations until the time allowed for court appeal of the ruling of such board has lapsed or until such further appeal has been exhausted. (3)The Hearing Officer shall be bound by the interpretations and decisions of duly authorized County boards concerning the provisions of the codes within their respective jurisdictions. In the event such a board decides that an alleged violation of the Code is not in accordance with such board's interpretation of the Code provision on which the violation is based, the Hearing Officers shall not be empowered to proceed with the enforcement of the violation. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(6), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 86-22, § 1, 3-18-86; Ord. No. 90-6, § 1, 2-6-90; Ord. No. 94-207, § 3, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 99-55, § 4, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 00-53, § 3, 5-9-00; Ord. No. 05-19, § 5, 1-27-05) Sec. 8CC-7. Recovery of unpaid civil penalties; unpaid penalty to constitute a lien; interest to be paid on liens; foreclosure; prohibition of the issuance of permits, licenses, certificates of use and occupancy, or zoning approvals to violators with unpaid civil penalties or liens.(a)Miami-Dade County may institute proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel payment of civil penalties.(b)A certified copy of an order imposing a civil penalty or an electronic copy of such order may be recorded in the public records and thereafter shall constitute a lien against the land on which the violation exists or upon any other real or personal property owned by the violator; and it may be enforced in the same manner as a court judgment by the sheriffs of this State, including levy against the personal property, but shall not be deemed to be a court judgment except for enforcement purposes. After one (1) year from the filing of any such lien which remains unpaid, Miami-Dade County may foreclose or otherwise execute on the lien. The lien created hereunder shall only attach to property owned by the violator named in the civil violation notice. (c)Liens created pursuant to Section 8CC-7 may be discharged and satisfied by paying to Miami-Dade County the amount specified in the notice of lien, together with interest thereon from the date of the filing of the lien computed at the rate of twelve (12) percent per annum, together with the administrative costs, filing and recording fees and fees paid to file a satisfaction of the lien in the public records. When any such lien has been discharged, Miami-Dade County shall promptly cause evidence of the satisfaction and discharge of such lien to be recorded in the public records. Any person, firm, corporation or legal entity, other than the present owner of the property involved, who pays any such unsatisfied lien shall be entitled to receive an assignment of the lien held by the County and shall be subrogated to the rights of the County in respect to the enforcement of such lien, as permitted by law. (d)Notwithstanding any provision of this Code, no County or municipal officer, agent, employee or Board shall approve, grant or issue any operating permit, license, building permit, certificate of use and occupancy, municipal occupational licenses, platting action, or zoning action to any named violator with (i) unpaid civil penalties; (ii) unpaid administrative costs of hearing; (iii) unpaid County investigative, enforcement, testing, or monitoring costs; or (iv) unpaid liens, any or all of which are owed to Miami-Dade County pursuant to the provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(7), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 99-55, § 5, 5-25-99; Ord. No. 00-53, § 4, 5-9-00; Ord. No. 09-17, § 1, 3-3-09; Ord. No. 12-99, § 1, 12-4-12) Sec. 8CC-8. Appeals.(a)The named violator or the County may appeal a final order of the Hearing Officer for all violations by filing a notice of appeal in the Circuit Court in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida, in accordance with the procedures and within the time provided by the Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure for the review of administrative action. (b)Unless the findings of the Hearing Officer are overturned in a proceeding held pursuant to Section 8CC-8(a), all findings of the Hearing Officer shall be admissible in any proceeding to collect unpaid penalties. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(8), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 86-22, § 1, 3-18-86; Ord. No. 90-6, § 1, 2-6-90; Ord. No. 91-127, § 2, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 08-10, § 4, 1-22-08) Sec. 8CC-9. Provisions contained herein are supplemental; general penalty for failure to correct violations.(1)Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit Miami-Dade County from enforcing its Code by any other means. The enforcement procedures outlined herein are cumulative to all others and shall not be deemed to be prerequisites to filing suit for the enforcement of any Section of this Code. (2)It shall be unlawful for a named violator found guilty of a code violation pursuant to Section 8CC-5(c) or Section 8CC-6 to fail to correct the violation as set forth in the uniform civil violation notice and said failure shall be a separate offense punishable as set forth in Section 1-5 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(9), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 99-55, § 6, 5-25-99) _____Sec. 8CC-10. Schedule of civil penalties. The following table shows the sections of this Code, as they may be amended from time to time, which may be enforced pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; and the dollar amount of civil penalty for the violation of these sections as they may be amended. The "descriptions of violations" below are for informational purposes only and are not meant to limit or define the nature of the violations or the subject matter of the listed Code sections, except to the extent that different types of violations of the same Code section may carry different civil penalties. For each Code section listed in the schedule of civil penalties, the entirety of that section may be enforced by the mechanism provided in this Chapter 8CC, regardless of whether all activities proscribed or required within that particular section are described in the "Description of Violation" column. To determine the exact nature of any activity proscribed or required by this Code, the relevant Code section must be examined. (Ord. No. 85-33, § 1(10), 5-21-85; Ord. No. 86-22, § 1, 3-18-86; Ord. No. 87-56, § 2, 9-1-87; Ord. No. 88-32, § 1, 4-21-88; Ord. No. 88-36, § 1, 5-3-88; Ord. No. 88-45, § 2, 5-17-88; Ord. No. 88-46, § 2, 5-17-88; Ord. No. 88-95, § 1, 10-4-88; Ord. No. 89-8, § 1, 2-21-89; Ord. No. 89-22, § 9, 4-4-89; Ord. No. 89-92, § 6, 9-26-89; Ord. No. 89-104, § 1, 11-7-89; Ord. No. 90-6, § 1, 2-6-90; Ord. No. 90-11, § 4, 2-20-90; Ord. No. 90-73, § 2, 7-24-90; Ord. No. 91-18, § 1, 2-19-91; Ord. No. 91-28, § 3, 3-5-91; Ord. No. 91-37, § 3A, 3-19-91; Ord. No. 91-40, § 2, 4-2-91; Ord. No. 91-65, § 2, 6-20-91; Ord. No. 91-90, § 8, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 91-95, § 26, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 91-109, § 3, 10-1-91; Ord. No. 91-111, § 1, 10-1-91; Ord. No. 91-116, § 2, 10-1-91; Ord. No. 91-122, § 2, 10-1-91; Ord. No. 91-123, § 12, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 91-128, § 2, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 91-134, § 2, 11-5-91; Ord. No. 92-20, § 10, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 92-38, § 4, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 92-89, § 3, 8-27-92; Ord. No. 92-97, § 12, 9-15-92; Ord. No. 93-57, § 2, 6-1-93; Ord. No. 93-65, § 2, 6-15-93; Ord. No. 93-70, § 6, 7-15-93; Ord. No. 93-71, § 2, 7-15-93; Ord. No. 93-72, § 4, 7-15-93; Ord. No. 93-76, § 2, 7-27-93; Ord. No. 93-108, § 1, 10-19-93; Ord. No. 93-109, § 1, 10-19-93; Ord. No. 93-112, § 1, 10-19-93; Ord. No. 93-115, § 2, 11-3-93; Ord. No. 93-130, § 2, 11-16-93; Ord. No. 94-13, § 2, 1-20-94; Ord. No. 94-14, § 2, 1-20-94; Ord. No. 94-15, § 4, 1-20-94; Ord. No. 94-49, § 2, 3-17-94; Ord. No. 94-77, § 2, 5-5-94; Ord. No. 94-78, § 1, 5-5-94; Ord. No. 94-81, § 2, 5-5-94; Ord. No. 94-93, § 4, 5-17-94; Ord. No. 94-102, § 2, 5-17-94; Ord. No. 94-121, § 2, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 94-122, § 2, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 94-123, § 3, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 94-124, § 2, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 94-136, § 2, 7-12-94; Ord. No. 94-139, § 1, 7-12-94; Ord. No. 94-148, § 1, 7-14-94; Ord. No. 94-149, § 2, 7-14-94; Ord. No. 94-198, § 8, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 94-199, § 3, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 94-207, § 3, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 94-211, § 5, 11-15-94; Ord. No. 95-23, § 2, 2-7-95; Ord. No. 95-29, § 1, 2-7-95; Ord. No. 95-85, § 2, 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-86, § 1, 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-100, § 2, 6-20-95; Ord. No. 95-106, § 2, 6-20-95; Ord. No. 95-174, § 3(Att. B), 9-20-95; Ord. No. 95-184, § 3, 10-17-95; Ord. No. 95-187, § 1, 10-17-95; Ord. No. 95-198, § 2, 11-7-95; Ord. No. 95-222, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 96-13, § 3, 1-16-96; Ord. No. 96-37, § 2, 2-20-96; Ord. No. 96-82, § 2, 6-4-96; Ord. No. 96-86, § 3, 6-4-96; Ord. No. 96-137, § 3, 9-17-96; Ord. No. 96-171, 11-19-96; Ord. No. 96-183, § 1, 12-3-96; Ord. No. 97-14, § 2, 2-25-97; Ord. No. 97-53, § 2, 5-20-97; Ord. No. 97-70, § 2, 6-3-97; Ord. No. 97-213, § 4, 12-2-97; Ord. No. 98-15, § 1, 2-3-98; Ord. No. 98-17, § 2, 2-3-98; Ord. No. 98-33, § 3, 2-19-98; Ord. No. 98-48, § 3, 4-21-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 4, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 98-137, § 1, 9-15-98; Ord. No. 98-105, § 3, 7-9-98; Ord. No. 98-169, § 2, 12-1-98; Ord. No. 98-184, § 2, 12-15-98; Ord. No. 98-196, § 1, 12-15-98; Ord. No. 99-08, § 2, 1-21-99; Ord. No. 99-16, § 3, 2-2-99; Ord. No. 99-24, § 1, 3-4-99; Ord. No. 99-62, § 2, 6-8-99; Ord. No. 99-66, § 2, 6-8-99; Ord. No. 99-70, § 2, 6-22-99; Ord. No. 99-99, § 3, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 99-114, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 99-148, § 2, 10-19-99; Ord. No. 99-159, § 2, 11-16-99; Ord. No. 99-163, § 2, 12-7-99; Ord. No. 99-165, § 2, 12-7-99; Ord. No. 99-167, § 3, 12-16-99; Ord. No. 00-47, § 2, 4-11-00; Ord. No. 00-53, § 5, 5-9-00; Ord. No. 00-97, § 3, 7-25-00; Ord. No. 00-107, § 2, 9-7-00; Ord. No. 00-139, § 2, 11-14-00; Ord. No. 00-175, § 3, 12-19-00; Ord. No. 01-03, § 2, 1-23-01; Ord. No. 01-35, § 2, 2-13-01; Ord. No. 01-38, § 3, 3-8-01; Ord. No. 01-44, § 2, 3-20-01; Ord. No. 01-74, § 7, 4-10-01; Ord. No. 01-85, § 2, 5-8-01; Ord. No. 01-108, § 1, 6-19-01; Ord. No. 01-109, § 8, 6-19-01; Ord. No. 01-169, § 2, 10-23-01; Ord. No. 01-196, § 2, 11-20-01; Ord. No. 01-225, § 1, 12-18-01; Ord. No. 02-4, § 1, 1-29-02; Ord. No. 02-20, § 1, 1-29-02; Ord. No. 02-33, § 2, 2-26-02; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-06, § 2, 1-23-03; Ord. No. 03-38, § 18, 3-11-03; Ord. No. 03-45, § 2, 3-11-03; Ord. No. 03-89, § 2, 4-22-03; 03-160, § 8, 7-8-03; 03-176, § 3, 7-22-03; 03-179, § 2, 7-22-03; Ord. No. 03-180, § 8, 7-22-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 9, 5-11-04; Ord. No. 04-94, § 2, 5-11-04; Ord. No. 04-191, § 2, 10-19-04; Ord. No. 04-214, § 6, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 05-20, § 3, 1-27-05; Ord. No. 05-202, § 2, 11-3-05; Ord. No. 05-206, § 3, 11-15-05; Ord. No. 06-40, § 2, 3-23-06; Ord. No. 06-41, § 2, 3-23-06; Ord. No. 06-110, § 2, 7-6-06; Ord. No. 06-123, § 2, 9-12-06; Ord. No. 06-158, § 2, 10-24-06; Ord. No. 06-173, § 1, 11-28-06; Ord. No. 06-178, § 3, 12-5-06; Ord. No. 07-04, § 9, 1-25-07; Ord. No. 07-05, § 22, 1-25-07; Ord. No. 07-91, § 5, 7-10-07; Ord. No. 07-149, § 2, 10-2-07; Ord. No. 08-07, § 3, 1-10-08; Ord. No. 08-10, § 5, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 08-34, § 2, 3-18-08; Ord. No. 08-51, § 1, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 08-55, § 1, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 08-120, § 2, 10-7-08; Ord. No. 08-128, § 2, 11-20-08; Ord. No. 09-17, § 1, 3-3-09; Ord. No. 09-25, § 2, 4-7-09; Ord. No. 09-94, § 2, 11-3-09; Ord. No. 10-24, § 5, 4-6-10; Ord. No. 10-35, § 3, 6-3-10; Ord. No. 10-52, § 4, 9-21-10; Ord. No. 11-61, § 4, 8-2-11; Ord. No. 11-89, § 2, 11-15-11; Ord. No. 12-03, § 2, 1-24-12; Ord. No. 12-08, § 3, 2-21-12; Ord. No. 12-44, § 2, 7-3-12; Ord. No. 12-45, § 2, 7-3-12; Ord. No. 12-48, § 4, 7-3-12; Ord. No. 12-51, § 2, 7-3-12; Ord. No. 12-65, § 2, 9-6-12; Ord. No. 12-77, § 8, 10-2-12; Ord. No. 12-80, § 7, 10-2-12; Ord. No. 12-84, § 4, 10-2-12; Ord. No. 12-101, § 2, 12-4-12; Ord. No. 13-07, § 2, 1-23-13) Sec. 8CC-10.1. Code Enforcement Technology Trust Fund. Ten (10) dollars shall be added to each civil penalty to be placed in a trust fund by the Clerk of Courts to be used for the enhancement of the technological capability of all code enforcement departments. The Clerk of Courts and the County Manager shall jointly appoint a committee of five (5) people to determine the priority for use of the fund. (Ord. No. 99-55, §7, 5-25-99) Sec. 8CC-11. Enforcement procedure for municipalities.(a)Municipalities within Miami-Dade County shall be entitled to enforce the applicable provisions of this chapter within their municipal boundaries subject to compliance with the provisions of this section. (b)As a condition to enforcing the applicable provisions of this chapter, a municipality shall enter into an interlocal agreement with Miami-Dade County. The interlocal agreement shall contain, at a minimum, the following: (1)The section or sections of this Code which the municipality wishes to enforce through this chapter;(2)The job title of the agents or employees of the municipality authorized to perform the enforcement functions and the number of agents or employees so authorized; (3)The amount reimbursable to Miami-Dade County for administrative costs relating to the conduct of hearings on appeals from violations issued by the municipality, including but not limited to attorneys' fees and costs, costs of transcription and clerical costs; (4)The amount of revenue reimbursable to the municipality from any fine collected pursuant to this chapter;(5)An agreement to indemnify and save the County harmless from and against any and all liability, actions and causes of action relating to the municipality's enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; and (6)A term not to exceed three (3) years.(c)With respect to laws and ordinances of County-wide application, the provisions of this section shall be supplemental to and not in derogation of any authority of Miami-Dade County to enforce the provisions of those laws and ordinances. (d)Nothing contained in this section is intended to extend the substantive effect or application of any County law or ordinance to any municipal area where such County law or ordinance is not effective or applicable. (e)Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit any municipality from enforcing provisions of its municipal code or this Code by any lawful and authorized means. (Ord. No. 94-38, § 1, 3-3-94)

,Chapter 8D CONSTRUCTION: FINANCING OF PUBLIC FACILITIES [1]

Sec. 8D-1. Definitions.Sec. 8D-2. Purpose.Sec. 8D-3. Powers of Board generally.Sec. 8D-4. Issuance of bonds—Generally.Sec. 8D-5. Same—General obligation bonds.Sec. 8D-6. Same—Revenue bonds.Sec. 8D-7. Application of revenues generally.Sec. 8D-8. Fees and charges for services, use of facilities.Sec. 8D-9. Moneys received deemed to be trust funds.Sec. 8D-10. Revenue bonds to refund outstanding bonds; refunding of seaport revenue bonds.Sec. 8D-11. Remedies of holders of revenue bonds.Sec. 8D-1. Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless some other meaning is plainly intended: (a) Board. The word "Board" shall mean the Board of County Commissioners of the County. (b) Project. The word "project" shall mean and shall include any one (1) or any combination of the following: airports; bridges, tunnels, viaducts, causeways; aquariums, oceanariums, marine laboratories; auditoriums; bathing beaches; hospitals, homes for aged and infirm; juvenile homes; reservations for water supply; roads; courthouses; ice plants, precooling and cold storage plants and warehouses; harbors, channels, jetties, breakwaters, public landings, wharves, docks, warehouses; and other improvements for harbors and shipping facilities; and shall include all property, rights, easements and franchises relating to any such project and deemed necessary or convenient for the operation thereof. (c) Cost. The word "cost" shall include the cost of construction or reconstruction, the cost of all labor, materials, machinery and equipment, the cost of all lands, property, rights, easements and franchises acquired, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one (1) year after completion of construction, cost of plans and specifications, surveys and estimates of cost and of revenues, cost of engineering and legal services, and all other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of such construction or reconstruction, administrative expense and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized. Any obligation or expense heretofore or hereafter incurred by the County in connection with any of the foregoing items of cost may be regarded as a part of such cost and reimbursed to the County out of the proceeds of bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter. (d) Revenue bonds. The term "revenue bonds" shall mean special obligations of the County which are payable solely from revenues. (e) General obligation bonds. The term "general obligation bonds" shall mean general obligations of the County which are payable from unlimited ad valorem taxes or from such taxes and additionally secured by a pledge of revenues. (f) Bonds. The word "bonds" shall include both revenue bonds and general obligation bonds. (Ch. 22960, § 1, Laws 1945; Ch. 27088, § 1, Laws 1951; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78) Sec. 8D-2. Purpose. This chapter shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized hereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing. (Ch. 22960, § 11, Laws 1945) Sec. 8D-3. Powers of Board generally. The Board of County Commissioners of Dade County is hereby authorized and empowered: (1)To construct, and to improve, extend, enlarge, reconstruct, maintain, equip, repair and operate a project financed under the provisions of this chapter; (2)To issue either revenue bonds or general obligation bonds of the County to pay all or a part of the cost of such construction or reconstruction; (3)To fix and collect rates, fees, rentals, tolls and other charges for the services and facilities furnished by any such project;(4)To acquire in the name of the County, either by purchase or the exercise of the right of eminent domain, such lands and rights and interests therein, including lands under water and riparian rights, and to acquire such personal property as it may deem necessary in connection with the construction, reconstruction, improvement, extension, enlargement or operation of any project or projects, and to hold and dispose of all real and personal property under its control; (5)To make and enter into all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties and the execution of its powers under this chapter, and to employ such consulting and other engineers, superintendents, managers, construction and accounting experts and attorneys, and such other employees and agents as may, in the judgment of the Board, be deemed necessary, and to fix their compensation; provided, however, that all such expenses shall be payable solely from funds made available under the provisions of this chapter; (6)To enter on any lands, water or premises located within the County to make surveys, borings, soundings or examinations for the purposes of this chapter; (7)To exercise jurisdiction, control and supervision over any project or projects owned, operated or maintained by the County and to make and enforce such rules and regulations for the maintenance and operation of any such project or projects as may, in the judgment of the Board, be necessary or desirable for the efficient operation of any such project or projects and for accomplishing the purposes of this chapter; (8)Subject to such provisions and restrictions as may be set forth in the resolution or trust agreement hereinafter mentioned authorizing or securing any bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter, to enter into contracts with the government of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, or with any corporation, copartnership, association or individual providing for or relating to the operation of any such project; (9)To award any contract for the construction of any project or any part thereof upon any day at least fifteen (15) days after one (1) publication of the notice requesting bids upon such contract in a newspaper of general circulation in the County; (10)To receive and accept from any federal agency grants for or in aid of the planning, construction, reconstruction or financing of any project or projects, and to receive and accept contributions from any source of either money, property, labor or other things of value, to be held, used and applied only for the purposes for which such grants and contributions may be made; (11)To lease any aquarium, oceanarium or marine laboratory, or any combination of the same, to any established college or university in the State of Florida without the necessity of advertising or competitive bidding and upon such terms and conditions as the Board may see fit, and to do all acts and things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this chapter; (12)To operate or let unto others or contract with others for the operation of concessions in connection with any project or any combination of projects, of the kind and character usually operated in connection with any such project, including, but not limited to, restaurants, lunch stands, refreshment stands, beverage stands, camera and camera equipment shops, souvenir shops and curio shops, and to purchase for and sell thereat goods, supplies, foods, beverages and other articles of personal property usually sold at such shops and stands, without advertising for bids, sales, rentals, leases or operating agreements and without including any estimates of receipts therefrom or expenditures therefor in any budget; provided, however, that any exclusive concession shall be granted or leased in the manner provided by State law, as amended from time to time. The highest and best bid shall be accepted unless all bids are rejected. The Board may make purchases and sales as herein provided through any employee or employees of the County without official action to such Board other than a general grant of authority to such employee or employees. The Board may pledge any revenues realized as the result of the exercise of the powers granted in this paragraph to the payment of principal and interest of any bonds issued pursuant to this chapter. All public or private property damaged or destroyed in carrying out the powers granted by this chapter shall be restored or repaired and placed in its original condition, as nearly as practicable, or adequate compensation made therefor, out of funds provided by this chapter. The State of Florida hereby consents to the use of all State lands lying under water which are necessary for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter. (Ch. 22960, § 2, Laws 1945; Ch. 27088, § 2, Laws 1951; Ch. 30433, § 1, Laws 1955; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78; Ord. No. 81-83, § 1, 7-7-81) Sec. 8D-4. Issuance of bonds—Generally. The Board is hereby authorized to provide, by resolution or ordinance, at one (1) time or from time to time, for the issuance of either revenue bonds or general obligation bonds of the County for the purpose of paying all or a part of the cost of any one (1) or more projects as hereinabove defined. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their date or dates, all as may be determined by the Board, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the County, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board prior to the issuance of the bonds. In fixing the interest rate which such bonds shall bear, there shall be no interest rate limitation. The Board shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and the manner of execution of the bonds, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. In case any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature or such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have, and are hereby declared to have, all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or in registered form, or both, as the Board may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bonds as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest, and for the reconversion into coupon bonds of any bonds registered as to both principal and interest. The issuance of such bonds shall not be subject to any limitations or conditions contained in any other law, and the Board may sell such bonds in such manner, either at public or at private sale, and for such price, as it may determine to be in the best interests of the County. Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Board may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds have been executed and are available for delivery. The Board may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost. Bonds may be issued under the provisions of this chapter without regard to any limitation or restriction contained in any other law and without obtaining the consent of any commission, board, bureau or agency of the State, and without any other proceeding or the happening of any other condition or thing than those proceedings, conditions or things which are specifically required by this chapter. The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects for the construction or reconstruction of which such bonds shall have been authorized, and shall be disbursed in such manner and under such restrictions, if any, as the Board may provide in the authorizing resolution or in the trust agreement securing such bonds. If the proceeds of such bonds, by error of estimates or otherwise, shall be less than such cost, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of such deficit and, unless otherwise provided in the authorizing resolution or in the trust agreement, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund, without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds shall have been issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund provided under the provisions of this chapter for the payment of the principal of and the interest of such bonds. (Ch. 22960, § 3, Laws 1945; Ch. 27088, § 3, Laws 1951; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78; Ord. No. 80-45, § 1, 6-3-80) Sec. 8D-5. Same—General obligation bonds. No general obligation bonds shall be issued by the County unless the issuance of such bonds shall have been approved by a majority of the votes cast in an election in which a majority of the qualified electors residing in the County shall participate. Such elections shall be called, noticed and conducted and the result thereof determined and declared in the manner required by law for the issuance of bonds of the County. For the payment of the principal of and the interest on any general obligation bonds of the County issued under the provisions of this chapter, the Board is hereby authorized and required to levy annually a special tax upon all taxable property within the County, over and above all other taxes authorized or limited by law, sufficient to pay such principal and interest as the same respectively become due and payable, and the proceeds of all such taxes shall when collected be paid into a special fund and used for no other purpose than the payment of such principal and interest; provided, however, that there may be pledged to the payment of such principal and interest the revenues of the project or projects, and in the event of such pledge the amount of the annual tax levy herein required may be reduced in any year by the amount of such revenues actually received in the preceding year and then remaining on deposit to the credit of the special fund for the payment of such principal and interest. (Ch. 22960, § 4, Laws 1945; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78) Cross reference— General obligation bonds, Ch. 16. Sec. 8D-6. Same—Revenue bonds. Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to constitute a pledge of the faith and credit of the County, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds provided therefor under the provisions of this chapter. All such bonds shall contain a statement on their face substantially to the effect that the County is not obligated to pay such bonds or the interest thereon except from such funds and that the faith and credit of the County are not pledged to the payment of the principal of or the interest on such bonds. The issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this chapter shall not directly or indirectly or contingently obligate the County or levy any taxes whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment except from the funds pledged under the provisions of this chapter. In the discretion of the Board, any issue of revenue bonds may be secured by a trust agreement by and between the County and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company within or outside of the State. The resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or such trust agreement shall pledge the revenues to be received, but shall not convey or mortgage any project or any part thereof, and may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the County and of the Board in relation to the construction, reconstruction, improvement, maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project or projects, and provisions for the custody, safeguarding and application of all moneys, and for the employment of consulting engineers in connection with such construction, reconstruction or operation. Such resolution or trust agreement may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders, and may restrict the individual right of action by the bondholders as is customary in trust agreements or trust indentures securing bonds or debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such resolution or trust agreement may contain such other provisions as the Board may deem reasonable and proper for the security of bondholders. Except as in this chapter otherwise provided, the Board may provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds and the revenues of the project or projects to such officer, board or depositary as it may designate for the custody thereof, and for the method of disbursement thereof, with such safeguards and restrictions as it may determine. All expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions of such resolution or trust agreement may be treated as a part of the cost of operation. The resolution or trust agreement providing for the issuance of revenue bonds may also contain such limitations upon the issuance of additional revenue bonds as the Board may deem proper, and such additional bonds shall be issued under such restrictions and limitations as may be prescribed by such resolution or trust agreement. No revenue bonds shall be issued under the authority of this chapter, unless the Board shall have theretofore found and determined: (1)The estimated cost of the project or projects on account of which such bonds are to be issued;(2)The estimated annual revenues of such project or projects; and(3)The estimated annual cost of maintaining, repairing and operating such project or projects; nor unless it shall appear from such estimates that the annual revenues will be sufficient to pay such cost of maintenance, repair and operation and the interest on such bonds and the principal thereof as such interest and principal shall become due. (Ch. 22960, § 5, Laws 1945; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78) Sec. 8D-7. Application of revenues generally. The resolution authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this chapter, or the trust agreement securing such bonds, shall provide that all of the revenues derived from the project on account of which such revenue bonds may be issued, except such part thereof as may be required to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating such project and to provide reserves therefor, shall be set aside at such regular intervals as may be provided in such resolution or trust agreement and deposited for the credit of the following separate funds for the following purposes: (1)A sinking fund for the payment of the interest on and the principal of such revenue bonds as the same shall become due, necessary charges of paying agents for paying such interest and principal, and any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase before their maturity or respective maturities, including the accumulation of a reserve for such purpose; and (2)A fund for anticipated renewals and replacements and extraordinary repairs. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust agreement securing such bonds, and except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust agreement, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all such bonds, without distinction or priority of one (1) over another. (Ch. 22960, § 7, Laws 1945; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78) Sec. 8D-8. Fees and charges for services, use of facilities. The Board shall fix and revise from time to time rates, fees, rentals, tolls or other charges for the services and facilities furnished by any project financed under the provisions of this chapter, and shall charge and collect the same. Such rates, fees, rentals, tolls or other charges shall be so fixed and revised as to provide funds, with other funds available for such purposes, sufficient at all times: (1)To pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the project or projects, and to provide reserves therefor and for replacements and depreciation and necessary extensions and enlargements; (2)To pay the principal of and the interest on all outstanding revenue bonds as the same shall become due and provide reserves therefor; and (3)To provide a margin of safety for making such payments and providing such reserves. Such rates, fees, rentals, tolls or other charges shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any commission, board, bureau or agency of the State or of any political subdivision of the State. (Ch. 22960, § 6, Laws 1945; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78) Sec. 8D-9. Moneys received deemed to be trust funds. All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this chapter shall be deemed to be trust funds, to be held and applied solely as provided in this chapter. The resolution authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, or the trust agreement securing such bonds, shall provide that any officer to whom, or any banks, trust company or other fiscal agent to which, such moneys shall be paid shall act as trustee of such moneys and shall hold and apply the same for the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this chapter and such resolution or trust agreement may provide. (Ch. 22960, § 8, Laws 1945; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78) Sec. 8D-10. Revenue bonds to refund outstanding bonds; refunding of seaport revenue bonds. The Board, for and on behalf of the County, is authorized to provide from time to time for the issuance of revenue bonds of the County to provide funds for the purpose of refunding any or all outstanding seaport revenue bonds of the County or for the combined purpose of so refunding and paying the cost of acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, extension or enlargement of a project. Any such refunding may be effected by the County using the proceeds of its revenue bonds, together with any other available moneys, to purchase obligations of the federal government, the principal of and the interest on which when due will provide sufficient moneys to pay the principal, interest and redemption premium, if any, on the outstanding bonds to be refunded as the same become due, whether at their respective maturities or upon the date or dates selected for their redemption prior to maturity, and any associated expenses. For the purposes of this section, the Board, in its discretion, may elect in the proceedings authorizing such refunding bonds to redeem all the revenue bonds to be refunded on one (1) or more selected redemption dates or so to redeem same of bonds to be refunded and to allow the balance of the bonds to be refunded to mature in accordance with their original principal payment schedule or to allow all of the bonds to be refunded to mature in accordance with their original principal payment schedule; provided, that in any case the redemption and the payments at maturity, together with interest and any redemption premium, will be provided from the proceeds of the revenue bonds authorized by this section, investment earnings thereon and any other available moneys. In connection with any such refunding, the County may enter into contractual arrangements deemed necessary or desirable by the Board with banks or other fiduciaries as to the escrowing, investment and application of refunding revenue bond proceeds, revenues of the County's seaport and any other available funds. The revenue bonds authorized by this section: (1)May be secured by and payable from the revenues of the County's seaport and, in addition, by income derived from the investment of such revenues; (2)May be sold in such manner and at such price as the Board shall determine; and(3)May bear interest at a rate or rates as the Board shall determine, but in fixing the interest rate which such bonds shall bear, there shall be no interest rate limitation. (Ch. 22960, § 10, Laws 1945; Ord. No. 78-27, §§ 1, 2, 4-4-78; Ord. No. 80-45, § 2, 6-3-80) Sec. 8D-11. Remedies of holders of revenue bonds. Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter or of any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under any trust agreement securing such bonds, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or by such trust agreement, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, mandamus or other proceeding, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Florida or granted hereunder or under such reso lution or trust agreement, and may enforce and compel the performance of all duties required by this chapter or by such resolution or trust agreement to be performed by the County or by the Board by any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of rates, fees, rentals, tolls or other charges for the services and facilities furnished by any project. (Ch. 22960, § 9, Laws 1945; Ord. No. 78-27, § 2, 4-4-78)

,Chapter 8E CRANES AND HOISTING EQUIPMENT

Sec. 8E-1. Definitions.Sec. 8E-2. Purpose, scope, exceptions.Sec. 8E-3. Referenced codes and standards.Sec. 8E-4. Tower crane manufacture, installation and use.Sec. 8E-5. Standards for mobile crane manufacture, installation and use.Sec. 8E-6. Standards for personnel/material hoist manufacture, installation and use.Sec. 8E-7. Crane siting.Sec. 8E-8. Building permits and inspections.Sec. 8E-9. Tower crane and mobile crane operator qualifications and certifications.Sec. 8E-10. Communications.Sec. 8E-11. Hurricane preparedness.Sec. 8E-12. Additional enforcement.Sec. 8E-1. Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following meaning: (a) Accredited Certifying Entity. A certifying entity is any organization whose certification program is accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or other nationally accepted and adopted accredited agency. (b) Crane. A machine for lifting or hovering a load and moving it horizontally, in which the consisting mechanism is an integral part of the machine. It may be driven manually or by power and may be a fixed or mobile machine and includes tower crane and mobile tower crane. The term does not include stackers, lift trucks, power shovels, backhoes, excavators, concrete pouring equipment, or straddle type mobile boat hoists. (c) Hoisting Equipment. Includes mast climbing work platforms, tower cranes, mobile cranes and personnel and material hoists. (d) Mast. A vertical structure that supports and guides the elevating assembly. (e) Mast Climbing Work Platform. A powered device consisting of an elevating assembly, base or chassis and mast that when erected is capable of supporting personnel, material, equipment, tools, and is capable of traveling vertically in infinitely adjustable increments to reach the desired work level. (f) Tower Crane. A hammerhead, luffing, or other type of tower crane that is regularly assembled and disassembled for use at various sites. It is usually characterized by provisions to facilitate erection and dismantling and may include features to permit climbing or telescoping. (g) Mobile Cranes. A mobile or locomotive crane covered within the scope defined in Section I, American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) B30.5 and includes crawler cranes, locomotive cranes, wheel mounted cranes, and any variation hereof that retains the same fundamental characteristics. (h) Personnel and Material Hoist. A mechanism and its hoistway for use in connection with the construction, alteration, on-going maintenance or demolition of a building, structure or other work. It is used for hoisting and lowering workers or material or both, and is equipped with a car that moves vertically on guide members. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-2. Purpose, scope, exceptions. This chapter shall provide a uniform standard for the construction, installation, operation and use of Hoisting Equipment, for the inspection and certification of Hoisting Equipment, and for the education and certification of Hoisting Equipment operators. This chapter shall be of uniform applicability throughout incorporated and unincorporated Miami-Dade County. The following Hoisting Equipment is specifically exempted from the application of this chapter: (a)Mobile cranes having a boom length of less than 25 feet or a maximum rated load capacity of less than 15,000 pounds.(b)Operators of electric line trucks.(c)Marine terminal operations.(d)Aerial work platforms or boom-supported platforms covered by the ANSI/SIA A92 series of standards. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-3. Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in this chapter shall be considered part of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this Chapter and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. Where differences occur between different provisions of referenced codes and standards, the conflict shall be resolved in favor of the provision that provides the greatest measure of protection to the public safety. Where standards are not otherwise specified, the applicable standards shall be those set forth by the manufacturer's published literature including all updates with respect to the equipment at issue. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-4. Tower crane manufacture, installation and use. The following standards shall be applicable to tower cranes proposed to be installed and used within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County: (a)The equipment manufacturers' (O.E.M.) specifications;(b)The mandatory rules contained within the applicable ASME B30 standard of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers made applicable to construction Tower Cranes (ASME B30.3); (c)The most current standards of the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") applicable to cranes including 29 CFR 1926.550; (d)The wind load standards contained within SEI/ASCE-7 for High Velocity Hurricane Zones as applied to the crane base foundation, the tie-ins to the building, the freestanding height and the height above the top tie-in. In applying the provisions of SEI/ASCE-7 for temporary installations, the design velocity reduction factors contained in SEI/ASCE 37-02 may be considered in factoring the wind speed at the discretion of the Building Official. The decision shall be made by the Building Official on a site-by-site basis. Factors to be considered include, but are not limited to, proximity to other structures, density, swing radius of the crane, hoist location and other safety requirements. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-5. Standards for mobile crane manufacture, installation and use. The following standards shall be applicable to mobile cranes proposed to be installed and used within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County: (a)The equipment manufacturers' (O.E.M.) specifications;(b)The mandatory rules contained within the applicable standard of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers made applicable to construction Mobile Cranes (ASME B30.5); (c)The most current standards of the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") applicable to cranes including 29 CFR 1926.550 and 29 CFR 1910.80. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-6. Standards for personnel/material hoist manufacture, installation and use. The following standards shall be applicable to personnel/material hoists proposed to be installed and used within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County: (a)The equipment manufacturers' (O.E.M.) specifications;(b)The mandatory rules contained within the applicable ANSI standard (ANSI A10.4). Bridging devices may be used provided they meet manufacturers' specifications; (c)The most current standards of the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") applicable to cranes including 29 CFR 1926.552; (d)The wind load standards contained within SEI/ASCE-7 for High Velocity Hurricane Zones as applied to the hoist tie-ins and the floor shoe connections. In applying the provisions of SEI/ASCE-7 for temporary installations, the design velocity reduction factors contained in SEI/ASCE 37-02 may be considered in factoring the wind speed at the discretion of the Building Official. The decision shall be made by the Building Official on a site-by-site basis. Factors to be considered include, but are not limited to, proximity to other structures, density, hoist location and other safety requirements. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-7. Crane siting. Together with the permit documents, the permit applicant shall submit to the Building Official all required applications and/or approvals related to the operation of the crane on site, including, but not limited to, any required by the Federal Aviation Administration pursuant to 14 CFR Part 77 and FAA Advisory Circular AC70/7460-2K and the Miami-Dade County Transit Adjacent Construction Manual. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-8. Building permits and inspections.(a) Permits. In addition to the requirements of the Florida Building Code, and of Section 8-10 of this Code, the following shall apply to any construction involving the placement or erection of Hoisting Equipment regulated by this chapter. The structural building plan for any threshold building shall contain sufficient information for the Building Official to determine whether the Hoisting Equipment to be used in the construction complies with the standards set forth in this section. In the event that the complete fabrication, including the connection to the foundation, base structural support and attachment to the building structure, requires the preparation and approval of shop drawings, the Building Official may issue the building permit subject to permit holds. The permit holds shall be released upon completion and approval of all required information. (b) Inspections. In the event that any construction involves the use of Hoisting Equipment regulated by this chapter, the Building Official shall require the use of a Special Hoisting Equipment Inspector. The Special Crane Inspector shall perform the inspections set forth in the approved inspection plan and report to the Building Official the results of the inspections in forms designed for that purpose. The Building Official shall be authorized to suspend or revoke the building permit relating to any construction for gross negligence, gross incompetence, failures to correct any identified failures to comply with the applicable standards, or willful or repeated disregard of any occupational safety standard or order involving the crane. Decisions of the Building Official may be appealed to the Board of Rules and Appeals in the manner set forth in this Code. (c) Schedule. The inspection plan shall provide for crane inspection which shall occur at a minimum as follows: Tower Cranes -After initial erection of crane-After each time top-climbing is completed on the crane and/or after each period of 6 months the crane has been erected on a construction project -After the passage of a hurricane or catastrophic wind event in the area of installation of the crane-After a major incident/accident involving the tower crane Mobile Cranes -Annual inspection with a rated load test within the configuration of the crane and the manufacturer's recommended load chart-After a major incident/accident involving the mobile crane-After the passage of a hurricane or catastrophic wind event in the area of an assembled and erected mobile crane Personnel/Material Hoists -After initial erection of personnel/material hoist, including a full rated load drop test-Every 90 days, including a full load drop test-After a hurricane-After a major incident/accident involving the personnel/material hoist(d) Hoisting equipment inspection companies. To perform inspections of Hoisting Equipment, companies and/or individuals shall comply at a minimum with the following requirements: -Incorporated or registered in the State of Florida conducting third party inspections on cranes and/or personnel/material hoists. -Cannot be wholly or partly owned by an Equipment Owner or Equipment Manufacturer in the crane and hoisting industry.-Cannot be receiving financial support from an equipment Owner or Equipment Manufacturer in the crane and hoisting industry.-Must carry a minimal of $1,000,000 professional liability insurance.-Must carry a minimal of $1,000,000 general liability insurance.-Must have in its full time employment an individual who is qualified to perform inspections as set forth in subpart (e) below.(e) Qualification of individuals performing crane inspections. To perform the requisite crane inspections, individuals must possess the following qualifications: -Minimal five (5) years of work experience in the crane industry specifically erecting, operating, maintaining, inspecting and supervising equipment. Two (2) of the five (5) years of documented work experience must be in the capacity of conducting inspections of cranes. -Must provide proof, reasonably satisfactory to the Certifying Entity, of completion of at least one (1) factory-sponsored or approved technical course to inspect the subject equipment. -Cannot be an employee of an Equipment Owner or Equipment Manufacturer in the crane and hoisting industry.(f) Qualifications of personnel/material hoist employee inspector. To perform the requisite inspections, an individual must possess the following qualifications: -Minimal five (5) years of work experience in the personnel/material hoisting industry, specifically erecting, operating, maintaining, inspecting and supervising of equipment. Two (2) years of the five (5) years of documented work experience must be in the capacity of conducting inspections of personnel/material hoists and following all applicable codes and standards. -Must provide proof, reasonably satisfactory to the Certifying Entity, of completion of at least one (1) factory-sponsored or approved technical course to inspect the subject equipment. (g) [Certifying, decertifying and implementation.] The Office of Building Code Compliance of Miami-Dade County shall be the Certifying Entity responsible for certifying and decertifying Special Hoisting Equipment Inspectors in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. To implement the provisions of this Chapter, the County Manager shall issue an implementing order to be approved by this Board. (h) [Appeals.] Decisions of the Building Official based on the application of this Chapter shall be appealed to the Board of Rules and Appeals in the manner set forth in this Code. (i) [Interpretation of provisions.] The Board of Rules and Appeals may interpret provisions of this Chapter in order to cover a special case if it appears the provisions do not definitely cover the point raised or if the intent of the provision is not clear, or that ambiguity exists in the wording, but shall have no authority to grant variances where this Chapter is clear and specific. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-9. Tower crane and mobile crane operator qualifications and certifications.(a)Tower cranes and mobile cranes shall only be operated by individuals certified in accordance with this Section. Certificates shall be issued by the Accredited Certifying Entity and shall be valid for five years. Certificates shall be issued to operators who: (1)Pass a physical examination conducted by a physician which at a minimum shall include the examination criteria specified in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) B30.5-2000 standard, Chapter 5-3.1.2(a)(1—5, 7, 8) or the U.S. Department of Transportation (US DOT) physical examination requirements contained in 49 CFR Sections 391.41 through 391.49. (2)Pass a substance abuse test. The level of testing shall be consistent with the standard practice for the industry where the crane is in use and this test shall be conducted by a recognized laboratory service. (3)Pass a written examination developed, validated, and administered in accordance with the Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing (Copyright 1999) published jointly by the Joint Committee of the American Educational Research Association, the American Psychological Association, and the National Council on Measurement in Education. The exam shall test knowledge and skills identified as necessary for safe crane operations and shall, at a minimum, include the following: a.Operational characteristics and controls, including characteristic and performance questions appropriate to the crane type for which qualification is sought; b.Emergency control skills, such as a response to fire, power line contact, loss of stability, or control malfunction;c.A demonstration of basic arithmetic skills necessary for crane operation and the ability to read and comprehend the crane manufacturer's operation and maintenance instruction materials, including load capacity information (load charts) for the crane for which certification is sought; d.Knowledge of the requirements of this chapter, chapters 5-0 through 5-3 of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) B30.5-2000 and B30.5a-2002 Addenda to the standard for mobile and locomotive cranes or chapters 4-0 through 4-3 of the ASME B30.4-1996 standard for portal, tower, and pedestal cranes or Chapter 3-3 of the ASME B30.3-1993 standard for Construction Tower Cranes, depending on the type of crane(s) the operator intends to operate. (4)Pass a "hands-on" examination to demonstrate proficiency in operating the specific type of crane, which at a minimum shall include pre-start and post-start inspection, maneuvering skills, shutdown, and securing procedures. (b)Recertification. Crane operators shall recertify every five (5) years and shall be required to meet all of the qualifications set forth in subsection (a). Operators with at least one thousand (1,000) hours of documented experience operating the specific type of crane for which recertification is sought as covered by this section during the immediately preceding certification period and who meet the physical examination, substance abuse, and written examination requirements set forth in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section shall not be required to take the "hands-on" examination specified in subsection (a)(4) to recertify. (c)Trainees may be authorized to operate mobile or tower cranes provided they are under the direct supervision of an operator possessing a valid certificate of competency for the type of crane operated by the trainee. The term "direct supervision" means the supervising operator is in the immediate area of the trainee and within visual sighting distance and able to effectively communicate with the trainee. When performing direct supervision, the supervising operator shall have no other duties other than to observe the operation of the crane by the trainee. (d)Existing Operators. For the period commencing on the effective date and ending one year thereafter, the certification requirements of this Section shall be deemed satisfied by any individual who satisfies the waiver requirements of this subsection. To be certified by waiver an individual must: (a) make written application for waiver from the Accredited Certifying Entity; (b) demonstrate to the Accredited Certifying Entity three years' experience in the operation of tower cranes and mobile cranes and (c) pass a hands-on examination to demonstrate proficiency in operating the specific type of crane. Only active performance of the tasks and skills required to operate the equipment for which the applicant is seeking certification throughout the applicant's career shall be counted toward the experience requirements. A certification obtained by waiver shall be valid only for five years and shall be subject to recertification in the same manner provided for in subsection (b) above. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-10. Communications.(a) Crane to crane. When more than one crane is used within the same swing radius an independent and clear channel of radio communication and operable equipment to transmit same between the cranes shall be provided. (b) Signal persons. Prior to signaling crane operators, all signal persons shall be tested and demonstrate their qualifications in the following areas: (1)Basic understanding of crane operation and limitations.(2)Standard hand and voice signals as provided in the applicable American National Standard (ANSI). Certification of the signal person shall be in accordance with any recognized federal, state or local testing program. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-11. Hurricane preparedness. General. Hoisting Equipment shall abide by the following hurricane precautions: (1)Hoisting Equipment shall abide by all manufacturers' recommendations relating to hurricane preparedness including any relating to the placement and removal of advertisement banners, the use and removal of rigging. (2)Tower crane turntable must be lubricated prior to the event.(3)Mobile cranes with fixed booms must be laid down whenever feasible.(4)Hydraulic cranes must have booms retracted and stored.(5)Any counterweighted hoist must have the counterweight locked below the top tie-in.(6)Tower crane must be set in the weathervane position.(7)All rigging must be removed from the hoist block.(8)All power at base of tower shall be disconnected by a general contractor.(9)A hurricane preparedness plan which conforms with the requirements of this section shall be available at the site for inspection. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08) Sec. 8E-12. Additional enforcement. In addition to other methods for enforcement provided in this Chapter, the Miami-Dade County Building Code Compliance Office shall be authorized to enforce the provisions of this Section through the issuance of civil violations fines in the manner more specifically provided in Chapter 8CC of this Code. Violation of this Chapter involving any damages to the public health and safety may also be addressed by the County through an action in court for injunctive or other available relief. (Ord. No. 08-34, § 1, 3-18-08)

,Chapter 9 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF COUNTY BUILDINGS, ROADS, BRIDGES AND CAUSEWAYS [1]



,Chapter 10 CONTRACTORS



,Chapter 11 COURTS [1]



,Chapter 11A DISCRIMINATION [1]



,Chapter 11B DUMPS AND LANDFILL SITES [1]

Sec. 11B-1. Legislative findings.Sec. 11B-2. Definitions.Sec. 11B-3. Administration of chapter.Sec. 11B-4. Application of chapter.Sec. 11B-5. Penalty for violation of chapter.Sec. 11B-6. Chapter cumulative and additional to other laws.Sec. 11B-7. Unlawful to operate a dump or landfill site without valid permit.Sec. 11B-8. Application for permit; issuance of permit; fees.Sec. 11B-9. Bond required.Sec. 11B-10. Revocation of permit.Sec. 11B-11. Appeals from refusal to issue permit or from revocation of permit.Sec. 11B-12. Minimum standards for operation of dump or landfill site.Sec. 11B-13. Duty of permittee in event of fire.Sec. 11B-14. Costs to be reimbursed; method of collecting.Sec. 11B-1. Legislative findings. The County Commission finds and declares that disposal of a considerable portion of combustible waste materials and refuse in Dade County is accomplished by the operation of dumps and landfill sites in Dade County, and further finds and declares that the operation of such dumps and landfill sites necessarily involves a high risk of fires. The County Commission finds and declares that because of the large size of the dumps and landfill sites, a fire thereon becomes an extreme hazard to the health, safety and welfare of the community, in that such a fire produces great and abnormal quantities of smoke. The County Commission finds and declares that such smoke creates a hazardous condition in the community by: (1) seriously reducing visibility of the highways and streets, thus jeopardizing the safety of the motorists, pedestrians, and residents; (2) seriously reducing visibility in the air, thus jeopardizing the safe operation of aircraft and endangering passengers' lives and cargo and the lives of residents of the community; and (3) polluting the air and endangering the health of residents. The County Commission finds and declares that a fire itself on a dump or landfill site subjects surrounding lands to fires and thus endangers the lives and properties of the owners thereof. The County Commission finds and declares that in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of this community from the hazards of smoke and fires resulting from the use of dumps and landfill sites, it is necessary to impose minimum requirements upon the operation of dumps or landfill sites to avoid the possibility of fires thereon and to expedite the extinguishing of fires which may occur thereon. Further, the County Commission finds and declares that in order to insure compliance with such minimum requirements, it is necessary to require persons operating or causing to be operated a dump or landfill site to obtain a permit therefor, which permit shall be issued only upon a satisfactory showing of compliance with such minimum requirements. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 1, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-2. Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section: (1) Person shall include any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or municipality, and shall include any agent or employee thereof and shall include both singular and plural. (2) Permittee shall mean any person who has obtained a permit in the manner herein provided, and shall include any agent or employee of the permittee. (3) Combustible waste shall mean all waste substances capable of incineration or burning. (4) Refuse shall mean all waste substances including garbage as well as combustible and noncombustible wastes. (5) Dump or landfill site shall mean any land used for the purpose of permitting any person to deposit or make disposal thereon of any combustible waste or refuse, or any combination thereof, whether the land is used in such manner for profit or not; provided, however, "dump or landfill site" shall not include land upon which is deposited only rock, dirt, sand or any combination thereof. (6) Board shall mean the Dade County Fire Prevention and Safety Appeals Board. (7) County Manager shall mean the County Manager of Dade County and shall include whatever person or department is designated by the County Manager to administer the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 2, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-3. Administration of chapter. The County Manager is hereby authorized and directed to administer all provisions of this chapter. The County Manager may designate any person or department, including the Metropolitan Dade County Fire Chief, to administer the provisions of this chapter. Where such a designation is made by the County Manager, the designee may do and accomplish all things required herein in the name of the County Manager. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 12, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-4. Application of chapter. This chapter shall be applicable in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Dade County. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 14, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-5. Penalty for violation of chapter. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a term not to exceed sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the County. Such fine and/or imprisonment shall in no manner restrict or prevent the County from filing suit against the person or his bond, for recovery of the amount of expenses incurred as herein defined. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 11, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-6. Chapter cumulative and additional to other laws. The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and additional to and not in derogation of any and all other provisions of law pertaining to fires, operations of dumps, pollution, public and private nuisances, and garbage and trash. Municipalities may establish and enforce higher standards for issuance of city permits and operation of dumps and landfill sites in the incorporated areas than those standards required herein for the issuance of a County permit. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 15, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-7. Unlawful to operate a dump or landfill site without valid permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated any dump or landfill site in Dade County without a valid current permit issued in the manner herein provided, or to operate or permit to be operated a dump or landfill site from and after the time the permit has been revoked or to operate or permit to be operated any dump or landfill site in violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 3, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-8. Application for permit; issuance of permit; fees.(a)All applications for permits for a dump or landfill site shall be filed with the County Manager and shall contain the full name and address of the applicant; a description and survey of the land to be used as a dump or landfill site; a description of the sequence and plan of operation; the location of a working, nonpay telephone which satisfies the requirement of Section 11B-12(1) of this chapter; the size and type of fencing which satisfies the requirement of Section 11B-12(2) of this chapter; the availability, size and type of equipment for fire control purposes which satisfies the requirement of Sections 11B-12(3) and (4) of this chapter; plans for fire, nuisance and vermin control; existing and proposed roadways and easements; existing topography and watercourses, together with a diagram and written statement explaining proposed location and extent of earthwork and fill operations; and the proposed estimated daily or weekly volume of waste materials to be deposited thereon. The application shall contain an agreement to hold Dade County harmless from any and all claims, liabilities, costs or damages arising out of the issuance of the permit and the operation of the dump or landfill site. The application shall be signed by the applicant and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by law. (b)The County Manager shall examine the application and shall be permitted access to the land on which the dump or landfill site is to be operated for purposes of his examination of such land. Upon determining that no violation of zoning, health, or other applicable State laws or County ordinances would be involved and upon determining that the requirement of Section 11B-9 of this chapter is satisfied and that the requirements of Section 11B-12 of this chapter are satisfied or can be satisfied, the County Manager shall issue the permit. (c)A schedule of filing fees to cover the cost of investigating and processing applications for permits shall be established by the County Manager and approved by the Board of County Commissioners and no application shall be issued until the appropriate filing fee for such permit is paid. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 4, 11-19-69) Annotation—AO 4-29.Sec. 11B-9. Bond required.(a)No permit herein required shall be issued unless there is filed at the time of application therefor a cash bond or a bond with a corporate surety in the amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) to assure that: (1) the permittee will operate the dump or landfill site in accordance with the conditions and requirements of this chapter and will comply with all of the conditions and requirements of this chapter; and (2) the permittee shall reimburse Dade County, in accordance with Section 11B-14 of this chapter, for any and all expenses and costs which Dade County may incur as a result of extinguishing any fire in the dump or landfill site which the permittee has either failed to extinguish or is unable to extinguish within the time specified in Section 11B-10(b) of this chapter, or which Dade County is requested to extinguish by the permittee; provided, however, that no municipality shall be required to secure and file the bond herein required. (b)Before a corporate bond is accepted by the County Manager as being in compliance with this section, the bond shall be reviewed and approved by the Dade County Insurance and Safety Division, and shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners. A corporate bond shall be executed by a corporation authorized to do business in the State of Florida as a surety. A cash bond shall be deposited with the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, who shall give receipt therefor. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 5, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-10. Revocation of permit.(a)Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the County Manager by written notice thereof for any of the following reasons: (1) any violation of any law or ordinance pertaining to the operation of a dump or landfill site; (2) any violation of any of the requirements for the operation of a dump or landfill site as provided herein; or (3) failure to have at all times a current and satisfactory bond, in the amount required by Section 11B-9 of this chapter, covering the operation of the permittee's dump or landfill site. Revocation of a permit under this subsection shall be effective on the day that written notice thereof is received by the permittee. (b)In the case of failure to comply with the requirements of Section 11B-13 of this chapter, or if any fire is not extinguished within four (4) hours from the time of its detection or from the time it should have been detected by the permittee, the County Manager may order the permit revoked and may take any and all steps necessary to extinguish the fire. Revocation of a permit under this subsection shall be effective at the time written or oral notice thereof is received by the permittee. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 8, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-11. Appeals from refusal to issue permit or from revocation of permit.(a) Written petition for review; time for filing. Any person whose application for a permit is denied by the County Manager, or any permittee whose permit has been revoked in the manner herein provided, may appeal to the Dade County Fire Prevention and Safety Appeals Board by filing with the Secretary of the Board a written petition for review and setting forth therein the reasons why his application for said permit should have been granted or why the permit should not have been revoked. In either case, the Board shall have no jurisdiction to entertain any such appeal unless a written petition or request for review is filed with the Secretary of the Board within twenty (20) days after the date upon which the permittee receives notice that his permit has been revoked or the person receives notice that his application for a permit has been denied. (b) Hearing date. (1)In the case of an appeal from the denial of an application for a permit, the Board shall set such appeal for hearing at the earliest possible date not to exceed fourteen (14) days from the day on which the Secretary of the Board receives the written petition and shall cause notice thereof to be given to the applicant and the County Manager. (2)In the case of an appeal from the revocation of a permit, the Board shall set such appeal for hearing on a date not later than five (5) days from the date on which the Secretary of the Board receives the written petition and shall cause notice thereof to be given to the permittee and the County Manager. (c) Computation of time. In computing the period of time within which an appeal must be taken from the denial or revocation of a permit, the day of receipt of notice of said denial or revocation shall not be included, and in computing the period of time within which the Board must set a hearing date, the day on which the Secretary of the Board receives the written petition for appeal shall not be included. The last day of any period of time herein provided shall be counted, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event the period shall run until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday nor a legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation when any period of time prescribed herein is less than seven (7) days; where said period is greater than seven (7) days, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be included. (d) Hearing procedure; time for decision of Board. At all hearings, the Board shall hear and consider all facts material to the appeal, and thereafter the Board may affirm, reverse or modify the action or decision appealed from, provided that the Board shall not take any action which conflicts or nullifies any of the provisions of this chapter. In the case of an appeal from the denial of a permit, the Board shall render its decision within five (5) days from the date on which the hearing is concluded, and in the case of an appeal from the revocation of a permit the Board shall render its decision by the end of the day following the day on which the hearing is concluded notwithstanding that day may be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. (e) Review. The decision of the Board shall be final, and no rehearing or reconsideration shall be granted. Any person, including the permittee and the County, whether or not a previous party to the decision, who is aggrieved by any decision of the Board may apply to the Circuit Court of Dade County for a review thereof by writ of certiorari in accordance with the applicable Florida Appellate Rules. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 9, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-12. Minimum standards for operation of dump or landfill site. In the operation of any dump or landfill site, the following requirements shall apply: (1)A working, nonpay telephone shall be located on the land to be used for the dump or landfill site, and shall be easily accessible. This requirement may be waived by the County Manager if the applicant demonstrates that a two-way radio in good working operation is installed in a vehicle which is used to patrol the premises on a twenty-four-hour basis, or if the applicant shall provide adequate transportation to carry the operator or watchman of the dump or landfill site to a working, nonpay telephone located in close proximity to the dump or landfill site. (2)Fencing, of a size and type adequate to restrict ingress or egress to the dump or landfill site by use of any access road, shall be installed; this requirement may be waived upon satisfactory showing that a watchman shall be on duty twenty-four hours a day to guard against unauthorized use of the dump or landfill site. (3)A water pump, in good working condition and of a capacity of at least five hundred (500) gallons per minute, shall be located on the land to be used as a dump or land fill site, and there shall be available sufficient hoses to be connected thereto by proper fittings to reach all portions of the land to be used as a dump or land fill site. A well, lake, stream or other source of water shall be available to supply water in sufficient quantity for the capacity of the water pump. (4)A bulldozer or other heavy earth-moving equipment shall be supplied and shall be of a size and weight capable of moving without difficulty the type of refuse deposited on the land to be used as a dump or land fill site. A person able to operate such equipment shall be on duty at all times, or shall be on call and able to respond to any call within one (1) hour of the call. (5)On no less than a monthly basis, the operators of all Class I disposal facilities permitted by the State of Florida Department of Environmental Regulation and not owned by Metropolitan Dade County shall submit to the County a report indicating the amount of solid waste disposed of by each user of the facility, which report must be delivered to the Department on a schedule and format to be prescribed by the Department. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 6, 11-19-69; Ord. No. 91-123, § 1, 10-15-91) Sec. 11B-13. Duty of permittee in event of fire. In the event that a fire should occur on the dump or land fill site, the permittee of the dump or land fill site shall first immediately notify the Dade County Fire Department and shall thereafter take all necessary measures to extinguish the fire by use of the equipment required by Section 11B-12 of this chapter and whatever other equipment may be available. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 7, 11-19-69) Sec. 11B-14. Costs to be reimbursed; method of collecting. In the event that the Dade County Fire Department is requested by the permittee to extinguish a fire on a dump or land fill site, or in the event that a permit is revoked under the provisions of Section 11B-10(b) of this chapter and the Dade County Fire Department extinguishers the fire on the dump or land fill site, the County Manager shall cause to be prepared a statement of all costs incurred by Dade County incident to extinguishing the fire. Upon preparation of the statement, the County Manager shall certify the statement as being correct and shall present said statement to the permittee and request payment thereof. The permittee shall make payment in full within twenty (20) days of receiving said statement. (Ord. No. 69-81, § 10, 11-19-69)

,Chapter 11C DEVELOPMENT WITHIN FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICTS [1]

Sec. 11C-1. Statement of legislative intent.Sec. 11C-2. Definitions.Sec. 11C-3. Development in either Special Flood Hazard (SFH) Areas, Coastal High Hazard (CHH) Areas, or Outside Special Flood Hazard Areas.Sec. 11C-4. Development within Coastal High Hazard Areas (CHH).Sec. 11C-5. Development within Special Flood Hazard (SFH) Areas.Sec. 11C-6. Accessory buildings.Sec. 11C-7. Application of chapter.Sec. 11C-8. Enforcement.Sec. 11C-9. Rules for interpreting area boundaries.Sec. 11C-10. Effect of provisions upon ordinances, building code, other regulations.Sec. 11C-11. Interpretation.Sec. 11C-12. Variances.Sec. 11C-13. Warning and disclaimer of liability.Sec. 11C-14. Severability.Sec. 11C-15. Penalties for violation.Sec. 11C-16. When chapter provisions effective.Sec. 11C-17. Required disclosure in contracts for sale of real estate.Sec. 11C-1. Statement of legislative intent. The coastal areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida, are subject to flooding resulting in danger to life, loss of property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. The Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, by Resolution No. R-671-69, adopted on May 28, 1969, expressed willingness to take action necessary to meet the objectives of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 within Miami-Dade County, Florida; and by Resolution No. R-912-70, adopted on July 24, 1970, reaffirmed its interest in securing flood insurance coverage under said act, and agreed to establish by December 31, 1971, measures required under the Federal Insurance Program. In August of 1970, the Federal Insurance Administration declared the entire area of Miami-Dade County eligible for federally assisted flood insurance, which insurance will mitigate the effects of damages from such natural disasters as hurricanes and severe storms and their attendant flooding. This chapter is adopted to insure the continued availability of said flood insurance; to comply with federally imposed requirements; and to protect the public health, safety and general welfare, by minimizing flood losses in the coastal areas of Miami-Dade County, and to require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction; control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of floodwaters; control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase erosion or flood damage; and to insure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in a flood area. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92; Ord. No. 09-66, § 1, 7-21-09) Sec. 11C-2. Definitions. In construing the provisions of this chapter, where the context will permit and no definition is provided herein, the definitions provided in Chapter 403, Florida Statutes, as may be amended from time to time, and in the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as may be amended from time to time, shall apply. The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section. (a) Accessory building shall mean a secondary residence, garage, or other building or structure on a lot or parcel subordinate to and not forming an integral part of the main or principal building but pertaining to the use of the main building. An accessory building may include a guest house or servants' quarters unless prohibited by existing deed restrictions or any applicable governmental regulation. (b) Addition (to an existing building) shall mean any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls is new construction. (c) Area of shallow flooding shall mean a designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one (1) percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow. (d) Area of special flood hazard shall mean the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one (1) percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. (e) Base flood shall mean a flood having a one (1) percent chance of being equalled or exceeded in any given year. (f) Basement shall mean that portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides. (g) Below grade facilities shall mean off-street parking facilities constructed underground and other similar types of below grade areas within a building which are not habitable areas and, containing neither electrical nor mechanical equipment, are not considered habitable. (h) Breakaway walls shall mean any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic, or any other suitable building material, which are not a part of the structural support of the building and which are intended through their design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces caused by abnormally high tides or wave action, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or the supporting foundation system or any other building to which they might be carried by floodwaters. A breakaway wall shall have a design-loading capacity of not less than ten (10) pounds per square foot and no more than twenty (20) pounds per square foot. (i) Building site shall mean the ground area of a property occupied by buildings and other enclosed structures. (j) Coastal high hazard area shall mean the area subject to high velocity waters caused by, but not limited to, hurricane wave wash. The area is designated on a FIRM as Zone VI-30, VE or V. (k) Crown of road (center line) shall mean a line running parallel with the highway right-of-way which is half the distance between the extreme edges of the official right-of-way width as shown on a map approved by the Department of Public Works. (l) Miami-Dade County Flood Criteria Maps shall mean those official maps of Miami-Dade County showing the required minimum finished grade elevation of the ground surface within a development site and as adopted by the Board of County Commissioners and recorded in Plat Book 120 at Page 13-1, 13-2, 13-3, 13-4 and 13-5 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, as the same may be amended from time to time. (m) Development shall mean any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage of materials or equipment. (n) Elevated building shall mean a nonbasement building built to have the lowest floor elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation, perimeter walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (o) Existing manufactured home park or subdivision shall mean a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before June 18, 1974, the effective date of Miami-Dade County's adoption of floodplain management regulations. (p) Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision shall mean the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads). (q) Finished grade as applied to a development site shall mean the established final elevation after filling or grading of the ground surface at a certain point within a development site. (r) Flood or flooding shall mean a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from (1) the overflow of streams, rivers, or other inland water, or (2) abnormally high tidal water or rising coastal waters resulting from severe storms, hurricanes, or tsunamis. (s) Floodproofing shall mean structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments (other than elevating) to nonresidential structures and utilities which reduce or eliminate flood damage to water supply and sanitary sewage facilities, structures and contents of buildings. Floodproofing may be permitted in large residential structures such as condominiums provided it is limited to electrical and utility rooms only. Floodproofing includes, by way of illustration, not limitation, the following measures: (1)Anchorage to resist flotation and lateral movement.(2)Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads, and shutters, or similar methods of construction to protect against winds, wave action, or flood waters. (3)Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures.(4)Use of paints, membranes, or mortars to reduce seepage of water through walls.(5)Addition of mass or weight to structures to resist flotation.(6)Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures.(7)Construction of water supply and waste water treatment and disposal systems to prevent the entrance or infiltration of flood waters. (8)Pumping facilities or comparable practices for subsurface drainage systems for buildings to relieve external foundation wall and basement flood pressures. (9)Construction to resist rupture or collapse caused by water pressure or flooding debris.(10)Installation of valves or controls of sanitary and storm drains which will permit the drains to be closed to prevent backup of sewage and storm waters into the buildings or structures. Gravity draining of basements may be eliminated by mechanical devices. (11)Location of all electrical equipments, circuits and installed electrical appliances in a manner which will assure they are not subject to flooding and to provide protection from inundation by the regulatory flood. (12)Location of any structure, storage, facilities for chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids or other toxic materials which could be hazardous to the public health, safety, and welfare in a manner which will assure that the facilities are situated at elevations above the height associated with the regulatory protection elevation or are adequately floodproofed to prevent flotation of storage containers, or damage to storage containers which could result in the escape of toxic materials into flood waters. (t) Flood hazard boundary area shall mean an area within an official map of the community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A. (u) Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) shall mean an official map of a community on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. (v) Flood insurance study shall mean the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood. (w) Floodway shall mean the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot. (x) Floor shall mean the top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles. (y) Functionally dependent facility shall mean a facility which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities. (z) Highest adjacent grade shall mean the highest finished grade elevation of the ground surface next to the proposed walls of a structure. (For the purposes of the NFIP this term shall mean the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. (aa) Historic structure shall mean any structure that is: (1)Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register; or (2)Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historic significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district; or (3)Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or (4)Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either: (a)By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior; or(b)Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.(bb) Lowest floor shall mean the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a buildings's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of Section 60.3 of 44 CFR Ch. I (10-1—88 Edition). (cc) Mangrove stand shall mean an assemblage of mangrove trees which consists of one (1) or more of the following species: Black mangrove (Avicennia germinans); red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle); white mangrove (Languncularia racemosa); and buttonwood (Conocarpus erecta). (dd) Manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision shall mean a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. (ee) Manufactured home (trailer) shall mean a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle." However, park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures placed on a site for one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or longer shall be regulated as manufactured homes. (ff) Mean sea level shall mean the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD). (gg) Minimum finished grade shall mean the elevation established in the Miami-Dade County Flood Criteria Maps at a specific development site or the crown of an existing adjacent road, whichever is higher. (hh) National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) (as corrected in 1929) shall mean a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain. (ii) New construction shall mean a structure for which the "start of new construction" commenced on or after the effective date of the first Floodplain Management Regulation adopted by the County (June 18, 1974). The term includes any subsequent improvement to the structure. (jj) New manufactured home park or new manufactured home subdivision shall mean a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by Miami-Dade County, June 18, 1974. (kk) Physical start shall mean the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. (ll) Recreational vehicle shall mean a vehicle which is: (1)Built on a single chassis; and(2)Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections; and(3)Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and(4)Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. (mm) Regulatory flood (also herein referred to as the one-hundred-year flood) shall mean the level of flooding that, on the average, is likely to be equalled or exceeded once in any one-hundred-year period (i.e., that has a one (1) percent chance of occurring in any year). (nn) Residential or residence shall mean any lot, plot, parcel, tract, area, piece of land or building used exclusively for family dwelling purposes or intended to be so used, including concomitant uses as specified in Chapter 33, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (oo) Sand dunes shall mean naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds landward of the beach. (pp) Start of new construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (P.L. 97-348)) shall mean the date the building permit was issued provided that physical start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the building permit date. (qq) Structure shall mean a walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made facilities or infrastructures. (rr) Substantial damage shall mean damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred unless another method of computation under certain stated conditions is approved or authorized by the Federal Emergency Management Administration. (ss) Substantial improvement shall mean any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a structure, taking place during a six-month period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure. However, the accumulation period for a substantial improvement within any coastal building zone, as defined by Section 161.54(1), Florida Statutes, shall be five (5) years. The market value of the structure shall be (1) the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or (2) in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures which incur substantial damage regardless of actual work performed. The term does not include either: (1)Any project for improvement of a structure required to comply with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or (2)Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure. (tt) Substantially improved existing manufactured home, park or subdivision shall mean when the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced. (uu) Variance is a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92; Ord. No. 93-42, § 1, 5-18-93) Sec. 11C-3. Development in either Special Flood Hazard (SFH) Areas, Coastal High Hazard (CHH) Areas, or Outside Special Flood Hazard Areas. The County official responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter shall (to the extent not otherwise prohibited by Sections 11C-4 and 11C-5 with respect to development within SFH and CHH Areas): (a)Require building permits for all proposed construction or other improvements within said areas; and(b)Review building permit applications for repairs within said areas to determine that the proposed repair:(1)Uses construction materials and utility equipment which are resistant to flood damage; and(2)Uses construction methods and practices which will minimize flood damage.(c)Review building permit applications for new construction or substantial improvements within said areas to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and mobile homes): (1)Is protected against flood damage,(2)Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure,(3)Uses construction materials and utility equipment which are resistant to flood damage, and also uses construction methods and practices which will minimize flood damage. (4)Provides in the plans part of the building permit application the appropriate flood plain information including Miami-Dade County Flood Criteria, crown of road information, Federal Flood Zone and base flood elevation. (d)Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to assure that:(1)All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage, and(2)All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems are located, elevated, or constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, and (3)Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce the exposure to flood hazards; and(e)Require new or replacement water supply systems and treatment plants and sanitary sewage plants and systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and plants and discharges from the systems and plants into flood waters, and require on-site waste water disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding. (f)Require a lowest floor elevation of floodproofing certification, before tie-beam inspection and after the lowest floor is completed, or in instances where the structure is subject to the regulations applicable to coastal high hazard areas, after placement of the horizontal structural members of the lowest floor. Upon placement of the lowest floor, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, or upon placement of the horizontal structural members of the lowest floor, whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the County a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, floodproofed elevation, or the elevation of the lowest portion of the horizontal structural members of the lowest floor, whichever is applicable, as built, in relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When floodproofing is utilized for a particular building, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The County shall review the floor elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project. (g)Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions) include within such proposals base flood elevation data, Miami-Dade County Flood Criteria, existing grade and crown of adjacent road elevation. (h)Obtain, review and reasonable utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, State, or other source, including data development pursuant to Section 11C-3(g), as criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in Zone A on the community's FIRM meet the standards in this chapter. (i)Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or State law, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, U.S.C. 1334. (j)In coastal high hazard areas, the County shall review plans for adequacy of breakaway walls in accordance with Sections 11C-4(e), (f) and (g). (k)When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided in accordance with Section 11C-7(b), then the County shall obtain, review and reasonable utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. (l)All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be maintained in the office of the County official and shall be open for public inspection. (m)Review proposed development to assure that no use shall be make for other than crop, grove, nursery and grazing purposes, or similar uses, and no building of any type shall be constructed, erected upon or moved to any land below the elevation established by the County Flood Criteria Map as adopted by the Board of County Commissioners, or the back of sidewalk elevation of the road fronting the property, or if there is no sidewalk, the elevation of the crown of road or street abutting such building site, whichever is higher. And before any such land shall be used, except as above authorized, it shall be filled as required by the directors of Departments of Environmental Resources Management and Public Works. For uses other than residential requiring a floor, the floor elevation shall be a minimum of four (4) inches above the elevation established by the County Flood Criteria Map, or the back of sidewalk elevation, or if there is no sidewalk, the elevation of the highest crown of road or street abutting such building site, whichever is higher, or if the road has no crown, then the highest edge of cross section of the road shall apply. For all residential uses, the floor elevation shall be a minimum of eight (8) inches above the elevation established by the County Flood Criteria Map, or the back of sidewalk elevation, or if there is no sidewalk, the elevation of the highest crown of road or street abutting such building site, whichever is higher, or if the road has no crown, then the highest edge of cross section of the road shall apply. In all cases and for all uses and whether the property is located in a Special Flood Hazard Area, or outside, the floor elevation obtained as above described, shall be compared against the base flood elevation shown in the Flood Insurance Rate Maps and the higher of the two (2) shall be used for design and construction. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to off-street parking facilities constructed underground and other similar types of below grade areas within a building which are not lowest floor and contain neither electrical nor mechanical equipment. All such facilities constructed below grade shall be designed and constructed and contain essential equipment, if necessary, to prevent infiltration and accumulation of water or to provide for immediate and continuous elimination of water. A Florida registered engineer or architect shall submit data and a floodproofing certificate to assure that the design complies with all guidelines of Section 11C-5(b). (n)If in the review of a building application within the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, it is determined that in the application of the provisions of Section 11C-3(m) of this Code the building applicant would be otherwise required to provide flood protection in excess of the requirements of this chapter, then it shall be the responsibility and authority of the Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management, or his designee, to review such plans and may grant a variance to the requirements of Section 11C-3(m) of this Code to provide flood protection which is no less than the flood protection required by this chapter based upon good engineering practice. Said decision shall be subject to appeal in accordance with Section 11C-12(j) of this Code. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-4. Development within Coastal High Hazard Areas (CHH).(a)Existing uses located on land in a CHH Area which is below the elevation of the regulatory flood shall not be expanded and no building permit referred to in Section 11C-3 of this chapter may be issued therefor unless the provisions of subsection (b) hereof are complied with. (b)No new construction or substantial improvement shall be undertaken and no building permit referred to in Section 11C-3 may be issued therefor upon any lands within CHH Areas which are below the level of the regulatory flood unless said new construction or substantial improvement: (1)Is located landward of the reach of the mean high tide; and(2)Is elevated on adequately anchored pilings or columns, and securely anchored to such piles or columns so that the lowest portion of the structural members of the lowest floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated at or above the regulatory flood level. (c)There shall be no fill used as structural support. Noncompacted fill may be used around the perimeter of a building for landscaping/aesthetic purposes provided the fill will wash out from storm surge (thereby rendering the building free of obstruction) prior to generating excessive loading forces, ramping effects, or wave deflection. The County shall approve design plans for landscaping/aesthetic fill only after the applicant has provided an analysis by an engineer, architect, and/or soil scientist which demonstrates that the following factors have been fully considered: (1)Particle composition of fill material does not have a tendency toward excessive natural compaction;(2)Volume and distribution of fill will not cause wave deflection to adjacent properties; and(3)Slope of fill will not cause wave run-up or ramping.(d)No man-made alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands which will increase potential flood damage shall be permitted.(e)Lattice work or decorative screening shall be allowed below the base flood elevation provided it is not part of the structural support of the building and is designed so as to breakaway under abnormally high tides or wave action without damage to the structural integrity of the building on which it is to be used and provided the following design specifications are met: (1)Material shall consist of lattice, mesh screening or unreinforced concrete block and shall satisfy all provisions in Section 11C-2(h). (f)If aesthetic lattice work screening or unreinforced concrete block (breakaway walls) is utilized, such enclosed space shall not be designed for human habitation, but shall be designed to be used only for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Areas enclosed by unreinforced concrete block (breakaway walls) exceeding two hundred ninety-nine (299) square feet in size will be considered the lowest floor for flood insurance purposes and therefore higher insurance premiums will result. (g)Prior to construction, plans for any structures that will have lattice work or decorative screening or a breakaway wall, shall be submitted to the county official for approval. (h)Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure shall not enclose the space below the lowest floor except with lattice work, decorative screening, as provided for in Section 11C-4(e), or concrete as provided by Section 11C-2(h). (i)A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the structure is securely anchored to adequately anchored pilings or columns to withstand velocity waters and hurricane wave wash. (j)No manufactured homes, except in existing manufactured home parks and manufactured home subdivisions, shall be placed within this zone, provided all of the anchoring and elevation standards of Sections 11C-4(i) and 11C-4(b)(2) are met. (k)All recreational vehicles placed within this area shall either:(1)Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or(2)The recreational vehicle shall meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring and elevation requirements of Sections 11C-4(i) and 11C-4(b)(2); or (3)Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached structures. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-5. Development within Special Flood Hazard (SFH) Areas.(a)No new construction or substantial improvement of any residential structure or manufactured home shall be permitted in SFH Areas, and no building permit referred to in Section 11C-3 of this chapter shall be issued therefor, unless said new construction or substantial improvement has the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the level of the regulatory flood (100-year flood). Electrical, plumbing and other attendant utilities are prohibited below the base flood elevation. (b)No new construction or substantial improvement of any nonresidential structure shall be permitted in SFH Areas, and no building permit referred to in Section 11C-3 of this chapter shall be issued therefor, unless said new construction or substantial improvement has the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the level of the regulatory flood (one-hundred-year flood), or if the lowest permitted floor level of such nonresidential structure (including basement) is below the regulatory flood level then such nonresidential structure together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities shall be floodproofed up to one (1) foot above the level of the regulatory flood; provided that the lowest floor level of such nonresidential structure (including basement) shall be not more than ten (10) feet below the regulatory flood level. Where floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, a registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the floodproofing methods are adequate to withstand the flood depth, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces associated with the base flood, and a record of such certificates indicating the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained with the designated official. (c)All manufactured homes placed, or substantially improved, on individual lots or parcels, in expansions to existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions, and in new manufactured home parks, shall meet all of the requirements for new construction, including elevation and anchoring. (d)All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision shall be elevated so that: (1)The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than the level of the base flood elevation; or(2)The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less than thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade. (3)The manufactured home shall be securely anchored to the adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement. (4)In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision in which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood, any manufactured home placed or substantially improved shall meet the standards of Section 11C-5(d)(1) and (3). (e)All recreational vehicles placed on sites shall meet the requirements of Section 11C-4(k). (f) Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundations and other exterior walls below the base flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space except allowable uses i.e. parking, limited storage and building access and shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria: (1)Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; (2)The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above grade; and(3)Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in both directions; (4)Electrical, plumbing, and other utility connections are prohibited below the base flood elevation;(5)Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and (6)The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms or air conditioned.(g)Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris and potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply: (1)Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge; (2)If Section 11C-5(f)(1) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Section 11C-5 (3)Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes), except in an existing manufactured home (mobile home) park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring standards of Section 11C-5(c) and (d) and the elevation standards of Section 11C-5(a) are met. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-6. Accessory buildings. Nothing herein shall be construed to exclude accessory buildings from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-7. Application of chapter.(a)This chapter shall apply to and be enforced in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County.(b)The Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Miami-Dade County, as amended effective November 4, 1987, together with the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) therein, and as amended effective January 20, 1993 , July 17, 1995, and as amended effective September 11, 2009, together with the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) therein, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference hereto. The FIRM and FIS shall be kept on file, available to the public for public inspection and copying, in the offices of the Department of Planning and Zoning, Department of Environmental Resources Management and the Department of Public Works. Any changes, additions, or deletions to the FIRM or to the FIS for Miami-Dade County shall be approved by the Board of County Commissioners by ordinance. The County shall mail a courtesy notice of any change in the FIRM or to the FIS, as amended from time to time, to all property owners in the unincorporated area of Miami-Dade County affected by such change. Failure to mail or receive said courtesy notice shall not affect the validity of any such change or this chapter. (c)The provisions of this chapter shall constitute minimum standards throughout unincorporated Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92; Ord. No. 95-129, § 1, 7-11-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 7, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 09-66, § 1, 7-21-09) Sec. 11C-8. Enforcement. The County Manager or his designee shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter within the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-9. Rules for interpreting area boundaries. The boundaries of the flood hazard areas shown on the official flood insurance rate maps may be determined by scaling distances. Required interpretations of those maps for precise locations of said boundaries shall be made by the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee within the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County. Said interpretations shall be subject to review in accordance with Section 11C-12(j) of this Code. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-10. Effect of provisions upon ordinances, building code, other regulations. This chapter shall supersede any conflicting county ordinance, building code or any other county regulation to the extent that this chapter imposes more stringent requirements for the use or development of any lands or structures within SFH or CHH Areas in the unincorporated areas of the county. It is not intended to repeal, modify, or change any such county ordinance, building code or other county regulation except as herein stated. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-11. Interpretation. The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed in favor of the governmental entities affected hereby in order to effectuate the purposes herein stated. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-12. Variances.(a)Authority of the Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management. The Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee shall have the authority and duty to consider and act upon applications for a variance from these regulations for properties located within the unincorporated or incorporated areas of Miami-Dade County as hereinafter set forth. The Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee is hereby advised that in granting any variances hereunder, said Director shall consider the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program as specified in Title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter 10, subchapter B, Parts 1909 et seq. Furthermore, the Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee shall consider the fact that an annual report on variances granted shall be submitted to the National Flood Insurance Administration, which report is the basis for continued availability of flood insurance to the inhabitants of the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, and therefore variances shall be granted with extreme caution. (b)The Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee may grant variances from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions hereof will result in unnecessary hardship, and so the spirit of the regulations shall be observed and substantial justice done; provided, that the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter and that the same is the minimum variance that will permit the reasonable use of the premises. Upon receipt of all necessary information, including a staff report, the Director or his designee shall review the information and render his decision, either approving, modifying or denying the request. A copy of said decision shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation. All approvals or modifications shall not be effective until ten (10) days after the Director's or his designee's decision is published in a newspaper of general circulation. A courtesy notice containing the decision of the Director of his designee may be mailed to adjacent and abutting property owners of record, their tenants or their agents, that are duly noted on the application. The failure to mail or receive such courtesy notice shall not affect any action or proceedings taken hereunder. The Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee shall notify the Director of the Planning and Zoning Department and the Public Works Department of all decisions made pursuant to this subsection. (c)Variances may be issued by the Director or his designee for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section, except for Section 11C-12(g)(1) and Section 11C-12(g)(2), and provided the proposed reconstruction, rehabilitation, or restoration will not result in the structure losing its historical designation. (d)In passing upon all such applications except those pursuant to Section 11C-12(c), the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management, or his designee, shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and: (1)The danger that material may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;(2)The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;(3)The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner; (4)The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;(5)The necessity of the facility to be located on the waterfront;(6)The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;(7)The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;(8)The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain management program for that area;(9)The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;(10)The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site; (11)The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges. (e)Upon consideration of the factors listed above, and the purposes of this chapter, the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee may attach such conditions, limitations, and restrictions to any variance as the Director or his designee deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter. (f)Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result. (g)Criteria for variances:(1)Variances shall be granted upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief; and in the instance of a historical building, a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary in order not to destroy the historic character and design of the building; (2)Variances shall only be granted upon (i) a showing of good and sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance will result in exceptional hardship, and (iii) a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create a nuisance, cause a fraud upon or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances. (h)Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. (i)The Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee shall maintain the records of all variance actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request. (j)Review of any decision or action of the Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management or his designee pursuant to this chapter shall be to the Miami-Dade County Environmental Quality Control Board, in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 24-6 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Miami-Dade County Environmental Quality Control Board on an appeal may seek judicial review in accordance with the Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92; Ord. No. 98-125, § 7, 9-3-98) Sec. 11C-13. Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection required herein is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific studies. Larger floods may occur. This chapter shall not be deemed to imply that areas inside or outside designated flood hazard areas will be entirely free from flooding or flood damages, and shall not create liability on the part of Miami-Dade County or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-14. Severability. If any section, clause, provisions, or portion of this chapter [Ordinance 87-75, Section 1] is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of said chapter shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-15. Penalties for violation.(a)Willful violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any requirements hereunder (including violations of conditions, restrictions, or limitations established in connection with any variances) shall constitute an offense punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than sixty (60) days or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered as a separate offense. (b)Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, the official responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter may secure enforcement hereof by any legal action necessary, such as application to any court of injunctive relief, revocation of any building permit issued hereunder or other appropriate means. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-16. When chapter provisions effective. The provisions of this chapter shall become effective on January 20, 1993. However: (a)The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those buildings for which a building permit has been issued and is in effect or for which proper and complete applications and plans have been submitted for building permits on or before the effective date of this chapter provided that the construction under the permit shall be commenced and progressively carried to a conclusion within the time limitations for permits established in Section 304.3 of the South Florida Building Code. Furthermore, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to buildings for which: (1)Plans and specifications as required by Section 302.2, South Florida Building Code, were in actual preparation prior to December 20, 1992; and (2)Said plans and specifications were substantially completed by December 31, 1992; and(3)Applications for building permits, accompanied by said plans and specifications, as completed, have been submitted for building permits prior to January 10, 1993; and (4)Construction under said building permits is commenced and progressively carried to a conclusion within the time limitations for permits established in Section 304.3 of the South Florida Building Code. (b)For the purpose of this section, the burden shall be on the applicant to submit to the Department of Environmental Resources Management, competent, substantial evidence establishing compliance with these provisions. Such evidence may include affidavits sworn to under oath by registered professional Florida architects or engineers; dated work sheets of such architects or engineers; invoices; contracts and other tangible documentary evidence establishing compliance herewith. The term "substantially completed" shall mean that the plans and specifications referred to hereinabove are fifty (50) percent or more completed as of December 20, 1992. (c)Determinations by the director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management, pursuant to this section, may be appealed to the Environmental Quality Control Board in accordance with the provisions of Section 24-6 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 87-75, § 1, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 92-150, § 1, 12-1-92) Sec. 11C-17. Required disclosure in contracts for sale of real estate.(a)In any contract for the sale of improved real estate located in unincorporated Metropolitan Miami-Dade County which is in a Coastal High Hazard Area, the seller shall include in the contract or a rider to the contract the following disclosure in not less than ten-point bold-faced type: THIS HOME OR STRUCTURE IS LOCATED IN A COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. IF THIS HOME OR STRUCTURE IS BELOW THE APPLICABLE FLOOD ELEVATION LEVEL AND IS SUBSTANTIALLY DAMAGED OR SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED, AS DEFINED IN CHAPTER 11C OF THE METROPOLITAN Miami-Dade COUNTY CODE, IT MAY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, BE REQUIRED TO BE RAISED TO THE APPLICABLE FLOOD ELEVATION LEVEL. (b)In any contract for the sale of improved real estate located in unincorporated Metropolitan Miami-Dade County which is in a Special Flood Hazard Area, the seller shall include in the contract or a rider to the contract the following disclosure in not less than ten-point bold faced type: THIS HOME OR STRUCTURE IS LOCATED IN A SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. IF THIS HOME OR STRUCTURE IS BELOW THE APPLICABLE FLOOD ELEVATION LEVEL AND IS SUBSTANTIALLY DAMAGED OR SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED, AS DEFINED IN CHAPTER 11C OF THE METROPOLITAN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY CODE, IT MAY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, BE REQUIRED TO BE RAISED TO THE APPLICABLE FLOOD ELEVATION LEVEL. (Ord. No. 93-21, § 1, 3-30-93)

,Chapter 11D DISEASED PALM TREES [1]

Sec. 11D-1. Title; applicability; to constitute minimum standard.Sec. 11D-2. Declaration of legislative intent.Sec. 11D-3. Public nuisance declared.Sec. 11D-4. Notice to remedy condition.Sec. 11D-5. Form of notice.Sec. 11D-6. Hearing.Sec. 11D-7. Trees may be removed by County; lien for expenses.Sec. 11D-8. Duty of Director of Finance to keep records of liens.Sec. 11D-9. Review by certiorari.Sec. 11D-1. Title; applicability; to constitute minimum standard. This chapter shall be known as the "Diseased Palm Tree Removal Ordinance" and shall be applicable in the unincorporated areas of Dade County and shall also constitute a minimum standard for all municipalities in Dade County, Florida. All references to County personnel shall therefore be applicable to municipal personnel who serve in comparable capacities to the County personnel referred to either by specific assignment by their municipality or by virtue of their general area of responsibility as assigned. Nothing herein shall prevent the municipality from enacting standards which are more stringent than those contained herein. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 1, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-2. Declaration of legislative intent. The Board finds that the palm blight disease known as lethal yellowing has reached epidemic proportions within Dade County, that the disease is a highly infectious one and that those trees which are infected with lethal yellowing to the point that they are beyond treatment should be quickly removed so as to reduce spreading of the disease. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 2, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-3. Public nuisance declared. The existence of palm trees infected with lethal yellowing to the point that they are beyond treatment are declared a public nuisance as those trees continue to be infectious and are a threat to healthy palm trees in the area. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 3, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-4. Notice to remedy condition. If the Director of the Park and Recreation Department finds and determines that a public nuisance as described and declared in Section 11D-3 hereof exists, he shall so notify the record owner of the offending property in writing and demand that such owner cause the condition to be remedied. The notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, addressed to the owner or owners of the property described, as their names and addresses are shown upon the record of the County Tax Assessor, and shall be deemed complete and sufficient when so addressed and deposited in the United States mail with proper postage prepaid. In the event that such notice is returned by postal authorities the Director shall cause a copy of the notice to be served by a law enforcement officer upon the occupant of the property or upon any agent of the owner thereof. In the event that personal service upon the occupant of the property or upon any agent of the owner thereof cannot be performed after reasonable search by a law enforcement officer the notice shall be accomplished by physical posting on the said property. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 4, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-5. Form of notice. The notice shall be in substantially the following form: NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE Name of owner _____ Address of owner _____ Our records indicate that you are the owner(s) of the following property in Dade County, Florida: (described property) An inspection of this property discloses, and I have found and determined, that a public nuisance exists thereon so as to constitute a violation of the Dade County Diseased Palm Tree Removal Ordinance in that there exists on the above-described property one (1) or more palm trees which are infected with "Lethal Yellowing" and are beyond treatment, and which trees are designated by a red circle painted around said tree. You are hereby notified that unless the above-described trees are removed within twenty (20) days from the date hereof, Dade County will proceed to remove said trees and the cost of the work, including advertising costs and other expenses, will be imposed as a lien on the prop-erty if not otherwise paid within thirty (30) days after receipt of billing. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 5, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-6. Hearing. Within twenty (20) days after the mailing of notice to the property owner, the property owner may make written request to the County Manager for a hearing before him or one (1) of his assistants to show that the palm trees referred to in the notice are not infected with lethal yellowing or that their infection has not progressed to the point that said trees are beyond treatment. At the hearing the County or the property owner may introduce such evidence as is deemed necessary. The County Manager or an assistant designated by him shall hold hearings at appropriate times and places, and the County Manager shall establish rules and regulations for the review procedure. Following the review by the County Manager or the assistant designated by him, the owner will be deemed to have exhausted his administrative remedies. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 6, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-7. Trees may be removed by County; lien for expenses. If within twenty (20) days after mailing of the notice no hearing has been requested and the trees described in the notice have not been removed, the Director of the Park and Recreation Department shall have the trees removed by Dade County at the expense of the property owner. If a hearing has been held and has concluded adversely to the property owner, the Director of the Park and Recreation Department shall have the trees removed by Dade County at the expense of the property owner. After removal of the trees the Director of the Park and Recreation Department or the County Manager shall certify to the Director of Finance the expense incurred and shall include a copy of the notice above-described and a copy of the decision of the County Manager, or his designated assistant, if a hearing was held, whereupon such expense shall become payable within thirty (30) days, after which a special assessment lien and charge will be made upon the property, which shall be payable with interest at the rate of six (6) percent per annum from the date of such certification until paid. Such lien shall be enforceable in the same manner as a tax lien in favor of Dade County and may be satisfied at any time by payment thereof including accrued interest. Upon such payment the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall, by appropriate means, evidence the satisfaction and cancellation of such lien upon the record thereof and notify the Tax Collector of such satisfaction. Notice of such lien shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and recorded among the public records of Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 7, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-8. Duty of Director of Finance to keep records of liens. The Director of Finance shall keep complete records relating to the amount payable for liens above-described and the amounts of such liens shall be included in tax statements for ad valorem taxes thereafter submitted to the owners of lands subject to such liens. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 8, 12-3-74) Sec. 11D-9. Review by certiorari. Any party aggrieved by the administrative decision may have such decision reviewed by the filing of a petition for writ of certiorari in the Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit in and for Dade County, Florida, for a review of the record upon which the decision is based, in accordance with the procedure and within the time provided by the Florida Appellate Rules for the review of the rulings of any commission or Board, which rules of practice and procedure are hereby adopted. For such purposes, the County Manager shall make available for public inspection and copying the record of each such decision to be reviewed; provided, the Manager may make a reasonable charge commensurate with the cost, in the event he is able to and does furnish copies of all or any portion of the record at the hearing. Prior to certifying a copy of any record or portion thereof, the Manager or his designee shall make all necessary corrections in order that the copy is a true and correct copy of the record, or those portions thereof requested, and shall make a charge of not more than twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page, instrument or exhibit; provided the charges here authorized are not intended to repeal or amend any fee or schedule of fees otherwise established. (Ord. No. 74-99, § 9, 12-3-74)

,Chapter 12 ELECTIONS [1]

Secs. 12-2—12-4. Reserved.Sec. 12-1. Reports to the Board.Secs. 12-2—12-4. Reserved.Sec. 12-5. Campaign contributions and expenditures.Sec. 12-6. Straw ballots.Sec. 12-7. Reserved.Sec. 12-8. Payment or offers of payment to candidates for elective office prohibited.Sec. 12-9. Solicitation of payments from candidates and offer of payments by candidates for County or municipal office in exchange for endorsement of such candidates for office.Sec. 12-10. Voter solicitation at polling places.Sec. 12-11. Receipt of qualification papers of candidates; examination; determination of compliance with election laws.Sec. 12-12. Initiative petitions.Sec. 12-13. Mail ballot election procedures.Sec. 12-14. Absentee ballots.Sec. 12-14.1. Absentee Ballot Campaigning Reporting Requirement.Sec. 12-14.2. Availability of Absentee Ballots for Presidential Elections.Sec. 12-15. Requirements for special elections.Sec. 12-16. [Creole translations in voting booths.]Sec. 12-17. Electronic reporting.Sec. 12-18. Electronic posting.Sec. 12-19. Penalties.Sec. 12-20. [Technical assistance.]Sec. 12-21. Reporting of independent expenditure.Sec. 12-22. Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund.Sec. 12-23. Initiative, referendum and recall petitions—Verification of signatures; disqualification of non-complying petitions; prohibition on improper signature gathering practices.Sec. 12-24. Mailing of Voter Identification Cards After Precinct Boundaries Are Changed.Sec. 12-25. Use of ballot position numbers.Secs. 12-2—12-4. Reserved.Sec. 12-1. Reports to the Board. The County Mayor or the County Mayor's designee shall prepare and deliver, between sixty and ninety days prior to any Primary or General election, a report to the Board of County Commissioners detailing the Department of Elections' preparations for such election. The report shall, at a minimum, contain: (1) an analysis of the anticipated voter turnout; (2) the anticipated utilization of absentee voting, early voting and Election Day voting by Miami-Dade County voters; (3) the steps taken by the Department to ensure that voters are able to cast ballots in a reasonable amount of time; (4) a summary of the equipment and personnel to be deployed at early voting locations and Election Day precincts; and (5) any additional budgetary or legislative requests necessary to perform the duties of the Department at the General Election. The County Mayor or the County Mayor's designee shall also prepare and deliver, between thirty and sixty days after any Primary or General election, a report to the Board of County Commissioners detailing the performance of the Department of Elections during such election. The report shall, at a minimum, contain: (1) an analysis of the voter turnout; (2) the amount of time taken by voters to cast ballots; (3) any irregularities or problems in the Department's conduct of the election or in the voting process; and (4) budgetary or legislative recommendations for improvement of the voting experience in future elections. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Code to the contrary, such reports shall be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of County Commissioners and shall be heard at a time certain to be set by the Chairperson. (Ord. No. 13-13, § 1, 2-5-13) Secs. 12-2—12-4. Reserved.Sec. 12-5. Campaign contributions and expenditures. Except as otherwise provided by the Home Rule Charter or by ordinance adopted by the Commission, the provisions of the election laws of the State of Florida regarding campaign contributions and expenditures shall apply to elections for the Office of Mayor of Miami-Dade County, Miami-Dade County Board of County Commissioners, Property Appraiser of Miami-Dade County and Miami-Dade County Community Councils. (Ord. No. 98-183, §§ 1, 2, 12-15-98; Ord. No. 05-214, § 2, 12-6-05; Ord. No. 08-62, § 3, 5-20-08) Sec. 12-6. Straw ballots. In Miami-Dade County a special election may be called for the purpose of conducting a straw ballot. (Ord. No. 99-37, § 1, 4-27-99) Sec. 12-7. Reserved.Sec. 12-8. Payment or offers of payment to candidates for elective office prohibited.(a)It shall be unlawful for any person to give, offer or promise to any candidate for any elective public office in this County or any of its municipalities anything of value for the purpose of influencing him to withdraw as a candidate for such elective public office, or for the purpose of influencing anyone to file as a candidate for public office. (b)It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit or receive a gift, offer, or promise of anything of value in exchange for his withdrawing or filing as a candidate for any elective public office in this county or any of its municipalities. (c)Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County Jail not more than sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. No. 72-98, §§ 1—3, 12-19-72) Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-98 provided that said ordinance be included in this Code, but did not specify the manner thereof, hence inclusion of §§ 1—3 herein as § 12-8 was at the discretion of the editors. This ordinance has been treated as superseding Ord. No. 72-81, adopted Nov. 21, 1972, formerly codified as § 2-11.02. Sec. 12-9. Solicitation of payments from candidates and offer of payments by candidates for County or municipal office in exchange for endorsement of such candidates for office.(a)It is unlawful for any person to solicit a payment of any kind from a candidate for a County or municipal office in Miami-Dade County, or from such candidate's agents, in exchange for the favorable endorsement, or promise of favorable endorsement, by the solicitor or otherwise, of said candidate for the office being sought by him. (b)It is unlawful for any candidate for a County or municipal office in Miami-Dade County, or for such candidate's agents, to offer money or anything else of value to any person or organization in exchange for the favorable endorsement of such person or organization. (c)Any person violating subsection (a) hereof shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days in the County Jail, or both, in the discretion of the court. (Ord. No. 73-10, §§ 1—3, 2-6-73) Editor's note— Ord. No. 73-10 amended this Code, but did not specify the manner thereof; hence, inclusion of §§ 1—3 herein as § 12-9 was at the discretion of the editors. Sec. 12-10. Voter solicitation at polling places.(a) Restrictions. No person may solicit voters within fifty (50) feet of the entrance to any polling place, or polling room where the polling place is also a polling room, on the day of any election. (b) Exceptions. Solicitation shall not be restricted if: (1)Conducted from a separately marked area within the fifty-foot zone, which may be designated by the Supervisor of Elections, so as not to disturb, hinder, impede, obstruct or interfere with voter access to the polling place or polling room entrance; and (2)The solicitation activities and subject matter are clearly and easily identifiable by the voters as an activity in which they may voluntarily participate; or (3)Conducted on property within the fifty-foot zone which is a residence, established business, private property, sidewalk, park or property traditionally utilized as a public area for discussion; however, no such solicitation shall be permitted within the fifty-foot zone on a public sidewalk or other means of access to the polling room if it impedes, obstructs, or interferes with voter access to the polling room or polling place. (c) Definitions. (1) Polling room means the actual room in which ballots are cast. (2) Polling place means the building which contains the polling room where ballots are cast. (3) Solicitation includes but it is not limited to: a.Seeking or attempting to seek any vote, fact, opinion or contribution;b.Distributing or attempting to distribute any political or campaign material, leaflet or handout;c.Conducting a poll;d.Seeking or attempting to seek a signature on any petition; ande.Selling or attempting to sell any item. (Ord. No. 89-64, § 1, 7-11-89) Sec. 12-11. Receipt of qualification papers of candidates; examination; determination of compliance with election laws.(a)In elections conducted for the Office of Mayor, members of the Board of County Commissioners, Property Appraiser of Miami-Dade County, members of the Fire Board, and members of community councils, the Miami-Dade County Supervisor of Elections, acting on behalf of the Clerk of the Circuit Court, shall receive the qualification papers and fees from all candidates for such offices. Only those candidates whose qualification papers and fees are in compliance with the applicable election laws of the State of Florida, provisions of the Home Rule Charter, and ordinances relating to such offices by the end of the qualifying period shall be deemed to have qualified. (b)Any qualified elector may challenge the qualifications of a candidate for the Office of Mayor, County Commissioner, Property Appraiser of Miami-Dade County, Fire Board member, or Community Council member for whom that elector is eligible to vote by filing a sworn written statement with the Miami-Dade County Supervisor of Elections within ten (10) days from the date on which qualifying ended for such office. Upon receipt of a sworn written statement, the Supervisor of Elections shall forward it to the Inspector General within three (3) business days. (c)The Inspector General, upon receipt of a sworn written statement challenging the qualifications of a candidate, shall have ten (10) days to conduct an investigation as to the allegation(s) contained within such statement. If the Inspector General determines that the candidate does not meet the qualifications of the office for which he or she has qualified, the Inspector General is authorized and directed to file and prosecute an appropriate action in Circuit Court with an attorney other than the County Attorney. For purposes of this subsection (c), the provisions of Section 2-1076(f) shall not apply. (d)Filing an Affidavit and Proof of Residency to Qualify for Election. Candidates for the office of County Commissioner, Property Appraiser of Miami-Dade County, Community Council, and Mayor shall submit a sworn affidavit at the time of qualifying that provides their current address of legal residence and affirms that they have met the residency requirements pursuant to Section 1.04 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter and Article II, Section 18-24 of the Code, respectively or the requirements of Section 2-69, as applicable. The affidavit shall be on a form provided by the Miami-Dade County Supervisor of Elections. In addition to filing the affidavit, candidates shall submit proof of residency which shall include one (1) of the following documents: voter's registration, driver's license, property tax receipt, homestead exemption, utility bill or lease agreement. (e)Penalties. In addition to any other penalties which may be applicable, any person who knowingly misrepresents their legal residency shall be subject to perjury and punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. No. 91-29, §§ 1, 2, 3-5-91; Ord. No. 01-107, § 1, 6-19-01; Ord. No. 01-182, § 1, 11-6-01; Ord. No. 03-66, § 1, 4-8-03; Ord. No. 08-62, § 4, 5-20-08) Editor's note— Ord. No. 91-29, §§ 1, 2, adopted March 5, 1991, amended the Code by the addition of provisions which have been designated at the discretion of the editor as § 12-11 Sec. 12-12. Initiative petitions. Initiative petitions proposed pursuant to Sections 7.01 or 8.07 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter shall embrace but one subject and matter directly connected therewith. (Ord. No. 93-61, § 1, 6-15-93) Sec. 12-13. Mail ballot election procedures.(a)Special elections for incorporation, annexation or special taxing district elections shall be called by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. (b)Notice of such special elections shall be published in accordance with Section 100.342, Florida Statutes.(c)The results of such special elections shall be determined by a majority of the qualified electors residing in the designated area voting at such special elections. (d)The County registration books shall close in accordance with the provisions of Section 97.055, Florida Statutes.(e)The supervisor of elections shall mail all official ballots with a secrecy envelope, a return mailing envelope, and instructions sufficient to describe the voting process to each elector entitled to vote in the election at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of the special election. The Supervisor of Elections shall determine the type of official ballot to be mailed, either a paper ballot designed for the votes to be hand counted or a paper ballot used in conjunction with an electronic or electromechanical vote tabulation system. All such ballots, except for ballots mailed overseas, shall be mailed by nonforwardable first class mail. Ballots shall be addressed to each elector at the address appearing in the registration records or to a mailing address upon the voter's request for said election. (f)Upon receipt of the ballot the elector shall vote the ballot, place it in the secrecy envelope, sign the return mailing envelope supplied with the ballot, and comply with the instructions provided with the ballot. The elector shall mail, deliver, or have delivered the voted ballot so that it reaches the supervisor of elections no later than 7:00 p.m. on the day of the election. The ballot must be returned in the return mailing envelope. (g)(1)The return mailing envelope for special taxing district elections shall contain a statement in substantially the following form: VOTER'S CERTIFICATE I, (Print Name), do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am a registered voter of Miami-Dade County, Florida, residing within the boundaries of the proposed Special Taxing District to which the enclosed ballot relates, and that I have not and will not vote more than one ballot in this election. I understand that failure to sign this certificate and give my residence address will invalidate my ballot. (Signature) Residence Address) (2)The return mailing envelope for annexation elections shall contain a statement in substantially the following form: VOTER'S CERTIFICATE I, (Print Name), do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am a registered voter of Miami-Dade County, Florida, residing within the boundaries of the proposed annexation area to which the enclosed ballot relates, and that I have not and will not vote more than one ballot in this election. I understand that failure to sign this certificate and give my residence address will invalidate my ballot. (Signature) (Residence Address) (3)The return mailing envelope for incorporation elections shall contain a statement in substantially the following form: VOTER'S CERTIFICATE I, (Print Name), do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am a registered voter of Miami-Dade County, Florida, residing within the boundaries of the proposed incorporation area to which the enclosed ballot relates, and that I have not and will not vote more than one ballot in this election. I understand that failure to sign this certificate and give my residence address will invalidate my ballot. (Signature) (Residence Address) (h)If the ballot is destroyed, spoiled, lost, or not received by the elector, the elector may obtain a replacement ballot from the supervisor of elections. An elector seeking a replacement ballot shall submit a written request to include a statement that the ballot was destroyed, spoiled, lost, or not received to the supervisor of elections prior to 7:00 p.m. on the day of the election. The supervisor of elections shall keep a record of each replacement ballot issued. (i)Special elections for incorporation, annexation special taxing district elections shall be canvassed by a county canvassing board as provided under the election laws of this state. (j)The supervisor of elections shall verify the signature of each elector on the return mailing envelope with the signature on the elector's registration records. Such verification may commence at any time prior to the canvass of votes. The supervisor of elections shall safely keep the ballot unopened in his office until the county canvassing board canvasses the vote. If the supervisor of elections determines that an elector to whom a replacement ballot has been issued has voted more than once, the canvassing board shall determine which ballot, if any, is to be counted. (k)A ballot shall be counted only if:(1)It is returned in the return mailing envelope;(2)The elector's signature has been verified as provided in subsection (j);(3)The elector has provided his or her residence address on the return mailing envelope and the residence address falls within the boundaries of the proposed Special Taxing District, annexation area or incorporation area to which the ballot relates; and (4)It is received by the Supervisor of Elections not later than 5:00 p.m. on the day of the election.(l)Nothing contained in this section shall be interpreted to make mail ballot elections the exclusive method of conducting an annexation, incorporation, or special taxing district election. Such elections may be conducted by the use of touch screens, optical scanning devices, or any other voting procedures authorized by law. (Ord. No. 96-4, § 1, 1-9-96; Ord. No. 02-90, § 2, 6-6-02; Ord. No. 05-217, § 1, 12-6-05) Editor's note— Ord. No. 96-4, § 1, adopted Jan. 9, 1996, amended the Code by the addition of provisions which have been designated at the discretion of the editor as § 12-13 Sec. 12-14. Absentee ballots.(a)An absentee ballot shall be provided to and returned by an elector, except an overseas elector, in person or by mail except as provided herein. For purposes of this section, "mail" means delivery by the United States Postal Service. Absentee ballots shall be provided to and returned by overseas electors in accordance with federal law and Florida Statutes. The Supervisor of Elections may provide to and receive absentee ballots from employees of the Miami-Dade Corrections and Rehabilitation Department who are designated by the Director to facilitate the vote for inmates of correctional facilities who are eligible to vote. The Supervisor of Elections may provide an absentee ballot to a designee of an elector if the elector is unable to retrieve and/or return the ballot in person or by mail as follows: (b)The designee must provide to the Supervisor of Elections identification from the elector, picture identification of the designee, and a written statement signed by the elector authorizing the designee by name to pick up and/or return the absentee ballot. If the elector is a member of the designee's immediate family, the signed statement must include the circumstances requiring the designee to pick up and/or return the absentee ballot. If the elector is not a member of the designee's immediate family, the designee must also provide to the Supervisor of Elections a statement signed by a physician on that physician's stationery that, due to a medical emergency involving the elector or elector's dependent, the named elector is unable to vote at the polls and is unable to pick up and/or return an absentee ballot in person. A designee may retrieve, pick up and/or return (whether by hand, by mail or by any other method) no more than two (2) absentee ballots other than his or her own per election, only one (1) of which may be for an elector not of the designee's immediate family. For purposes of this section, "immediate family" means the elector's spouse or the parent, child, grandparent, or sibling of the elector. A designee may only pick up and/or return an absentee ballot on the day before or day of the election for an immediate family member and on the day of the election for a non-family member. The designee must complete an affidavit that states that the designee is authorized by the elector to retrieve and/or return the elector's ballot and shall indicate his or her relationship to the elector, if any. Any person picking up and/or returning absentee ballots in violation of the provisions of this subsection shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction over the cause. (c)The Supervisor of Elections shall prescribe the form of the affidavit to be completed and signed by a designee of an elector. If the Supervisor of Elections is satisfied that the designee is authorized to retrieve and/or return the absentee ballot, the ballot shall be provided to or accepted from the designee. (Ord. No. 98-104, §§ 1—3, 7-7-98; Ord. No. 02-89, § 2, 6-4-02; Ord. No. 11-93, § 1, 12-6-11) Sec. 12-14.1. Absentee Ballot Campaigning Reporting Requirement.(1)Each campaign treasurer designated by a candidate for County or municipal office in Miami-Dade County shall, at the time of filing any contribution or expenditure reports otherwise required by law, file an additional electronic report with the officer responsible for receiving such candidate's contribution or expenditure reports. The report shall identify the names of all paid campaign workers, whether employed by the campaign or any consultant or agent of the campaign, participating in the campaign or undertaking any other activities regarding absentee ballots. The report shall be filed on a form created by the Supervisor of Elections for such purpose. (2)Any candidate failing to file a report as required by this section on the designated due date shall be subject to a fine of $50.00 per day for the first three (3) days and, thereafter, $500.00 per day for each day late not to exceed $5,000.00. Such fine shall not be an allowable campaign expense and shall be paid only from the personal funds of the candidate. Any candidate may appeal or dispute the fine to the Miami-Dade County Commission on Ethics and Public Trust based upon, but not limited to, unusual circumstances surrounding the failure to file on the designated due date, and may request, and shall be entitled to, a hearing before the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust, which shall have the authority to waive the fine in whole or in part. Any such appeal or dispute shall be made within twenty (20) days after receipt of notice that payment is due or such appeal or dispute shall be waived. (3)Candidates for County and municipal office in Miami-Dade County may not direct or knowingly permit any paid or volunteer campaign worker to violate any provision of the Miami-Dade County Code or Florida Law regarding the conduct of absentee voting. Any such candidate found to violate this subsection by the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust shall, in addition to any other civil or criminal penalties provided by law, shall be subject to the penalties provided in Section 2-11.1(bb) of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 13-05, § 1, 1-23-13) Sec. 12-14.2. Availability of Absentee Ballots for Presidential Elections. To the extent otherwise permitted by and consistent with the requirements Florida law, the Miami-Dade County Supervisor of Elections shall afford registered electors the opportunity to pick up and return absentee ballots on the Sunday and Monday immediately preceding the Election Day of a Presidential Election for any day during which Early Voting is not offered by the Supervisor of Elections. The Supervisor of Elections shall designate locations in Miami-Dade County for electors to pick up or return absentee ballots and shall establish the hours available for such purpose. (Ord. No. 13-22, § 1, 3-5-13) Sec. 12-15. Requirements for special elections. Except as mandated by: (a) Article 7 of the County Charter relating to initiative petitions and recall; (b)Section 8.07 of the County Charter relating to amendments to the Charter;(c) Section 1.07 of the County Charter relating to elections to fill vacancies in the offices of Mayor or County Commissioner, and (d)Any other Charter provision requiring a special election, no county-wide special election shall be held in Miami-Dade County unless the Board of County Commissioners determines that an emergency exists that requires a special election. The nature of the emergency shall be set forth with specificity in the resolution calling for the special election and a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners then in office would be required to call the special election. (Ord. No. 99-115, § 1, 9-21-99) Sec. 12-16. [Creole translations in voting booths.](a)In those precincts in which the Supervisor of Elections determines that a significant portion of the electorate is Haitian-American, the Supervisor of Elections shall provide voting booths containing Creole translations in addition to booths containing Spanish translations. (b)In those elections in which the Supervisor of Elections determines that it is appropriate to provide ballots in Creole, those ballots shall be advertised in a Creole language newspaper selected by the Supervisor of Elections. (c)The provisions of this ordinance shall apply only to ballots provided at voting booths in the precincts described in subsection (a) hereof and shall apply only to county-wide elections and other appropriate elections as determined by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. (d)The provisions of this section shall become operative only upon a written finding provided to this Board by the Supervisor of Elections that a certified Creole translator exists who can perform the translations mandated by this section. (Ord. No. 99-160, §§ 1—4, 11-16-99) Sec. 12-17. Electronic reporting. Candidates for the Office of Mayor of Miami-Dade County, Miami-Dade County Board of County Commissioners, Property Appraiser of Miami-Dade County, and Miami-Dade County Community Council shall file their Campaign Treasurer's Reports electronically with the Miami-Dade County Department of Elections. The Supervisor of Elections shall determine the required format for Campaign Treasurer's Reports and shall provide copies upon request. (Ord. No. 00-72, § 1, 6-6-00; Ord. No. 08-62, § 5, 5-20-08; Ord. No. 11-87, § 1, 11-15-11) Sec. 12-18. Electronic posting. Campaign Treasurer's Reports submitted by candidates for the Office of Mayor of Miami-Dade County, Miami-Dade County Board of County Commissioners, Property Appraiser of Miami-Dade County, Miami-Dade County Community Council and Miami-Dade County Fire Board shall be posted on the Supervisor of Election's Website within three (3) business days of receipt of the diskettes or CD-ROMs by the Supervisor of Elections; provided, that diskettes or CD-ROMs required to be filed within four (4) days of an election shall be posted on the Supervisor of Election's Website no later than two (2) days before the date of the election. (Ord. No. 00-72, § 2, 6-6-00; Ord. No. 08-62, § 6, 5-20-08) Sec. 12-19. Penalties. In addition to any other penalties which may be applicable, any individual who violates this ordinance shall be subject to a fine up to fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for the first three (3) days late and, thereafter, five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day for each day late, not to exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the total receipts or expenditures, whichever is greater, for the period covered by the late report. If it is determined by a court which has jurisdiction over an alleged violation of the ordinance from which this section derives that unusual circumstances caused the Campaign Treasurer's Report to be filed late, no fine shall be imposed by the court. As used herein, "unusual circumstances" shall mean uncommon, rare or sudden events over which the actor has no control and which directly result in the failure to act according to the filing requirements. Unusual circumstances must occur within a time period that would clearly prevent the person legally responsible for filing the report from doing so in a timely manner. (Ord. No. 00-72, § 3, 6-6-00) Sec. 12-20. [Technical assistance.] The Supervisor of Elections shall, pursuant to an Administrative Order approved by the Commission, provide technical assistance to candidates regarding the electronic filing requirements of this ordinance. The Administrative Order shall also establish a schedule of fees for the provision of diskettes or CD-ROMs, which comply with the requirements of the ordinance from which this section derives, to candidates. (Ord. No. 00-72, § 4, 6-6-00) Sec. 12-21. Reporting of independent expenditure.(a) Reporting and Posting of Independent Expenditures. (1) Reporting and posting of independent expenditures. Each person who makes an independent expenditure with respect to any candidate for the Office of Mayor of Miami-Dade County, the Office of Commissioner of Miami-Dade County, Property Appraiser of Miami-Dade County, or Miami-Dade County Community Council shall file a report ("Independent Expenditure Report") electronically with the Miami-Dade County Department of Elections. The Supervisor of Elections shall determine the required format for Independent Expenditure Reports and shall provide copies upon request. Independent Expenditure Reports submitted by a person or entity shall be posted on the Supervisor of Election's Website within two (2) business days of receipt of the Independent Expenditure Report. (2) Definitions. a.For purposes of this section, "person" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Chapter 106, Florida Statutes, as amended and supplemented. b.For purposes of this section, "independent expenditure" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Chapter 106, Florida Statutes, as amended and supplemented. (Ord. No. 00-125, §§ 1, 2, 10-3-00; Ord. No. 08-62, § 7, 5-20-08; Ord. No. 11-87, § 1, 11-15-11) Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-125, §§ 1, 2, adopted Oct. 3, 2000 did not specifically amend the Code. Its inclusion as section 12-21 was at the discretion of the editor. Sec. 12-22. Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund.(a) Definitions. The following terms, as used in this section, shall mean: (1)"Contribution" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Chapter 106, Florida Statutes, as amended and supplemented.(2)"Expenditure" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Chapter 106, Florida Statutes, as amended and supplemented.(3)"Unincorporated association" means a partnership or any other legal entity other than a natural person.(b) Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund. There is established the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund to be utilized by the Miami-Dade County Department of Elections as provided in this section. If necessary, each year in which a general election is to be held for the election of the Mayor or any County Commissioner, additional funds shall be transferred to the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund from general revenues in an amount sufficient to fund qualifying candidates pursuant to this section. (c) Election campaign financing; eligibility. Each candidate for the Office of Mayor of Miami-Dade County or the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County who desires to receive contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund (the "Fund") shall file an irrevocable declaration of intent to seek public financing no later than ninety (90) days after opening a campaign account, or thirty (30) days before the first day of qualifying, whichever shall come first. Each candidate for the Office of Mayor of Miami-Dade County or the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County who has filed a declaration of intent and has satisfied the eligibility requirements shall file an application by the filing deadline for such contributions with the filing officer on forms provided by the Miami-Dade County Supervisor of Elections. As used in this subsection, "filing deadline" shall be twenty (20) business days prior to the first day a candidate may qualify for the elective office sought. Each application for contributions from the Fund shall be signed by both the candidate and campaign treasurer under oath. If a candidate requesting contributions from the Fund desires to have such funds distributed by electronic fund transfers, the request shall include information necessary to implement that procedure. To be eligible to receive contributions from the Fund, a candidate shall not be an unopposed candidate and shall: (1)Sign a statement of understanding wherein the candidate states that he or she has read, understands and agrees to abide by Section 12-22 of the Code and the applicable Administrative Order regarding the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund. (2)Qualify as a candidate pursuant to Chapter 99, Florida Statutes and section 2.04 of the Home Rule Charter;(3)Limit loans or contributions from the candidate's personal funds to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), which loans or contributions shall not qualify for meeting the threshold amounts in subsection (c)(5); (4)Submit to audits of the campaign account by the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust as provided in subsection (f)(3); and(5)Raise contributions as follows:a.Candidates for Board of County Commissioners. Each candidate for the Board of County Commissioners shall have received by the filing deadline at least three hundred (300) separate contributions between one hundred dollars ($100.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00) from three hundred (300) different qualified contributors totaling at least thirty thousand dollars ($30,000). As used in this subsection, a "qualified contributor" means a Miami-Dade County registered voter residing in the Commission district which the candidate is seeking to represent or a bank, corporation or unincorporated association with a place of business in the Commission district which the candidate is seeking to represent. As used herein, a "place of business" means a physical location in the applicable commission district where business is conducted as evidenced by an occupational license, a permit or license issued by a governmental entity, or income or property tax returns or notices. A post office box shall not constitute a place of business. Any candidate who satisfies the requirements stated in the preceding sentence shall be eligible for a contribution of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) as provided in subsection (f)(3). Each candidate for the Board of County Commissioners who receives by the filing deadline an additional twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) in contributions between one hundred dollars ($100.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a total of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) shall be eligible for a contribution of an additional twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) as provided in subsection (f)(3). These contributions must be in the form of: 1.A personal check drawn on a personal bank account;2.A business check drawn on a corporate or other business bank account;3.Traveler's check that includes the contributor's full name and address; or4.Electronic transfer of funds where the full name of the contributor is clearly stated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each candidate for the Board of County Commissioners during the 2006 election cycle shall be required to satisfy all of the requirements of section 12-22 except that: (1) one hundred and fifty (150) of the three hundred (300) qualifying contributions shall come from qualified contributors as defined in this subsection (c)(5)a; and (2) the remaining one hundred and fifty (150) qualifying contributions shall come from qualified contributors as defined in subsection (c)(5)b who, in the case of registered voters, do not reside in the Commission district which the candidate is seeking to represent or, in the case of corporate contributors, do not have a place of business in the Commission district which the candidate is seeking to represent. b.Candidates for Mayor. Each candidate for Mayor of Miami-Dade County shall have received at least one thousand five hundred (1,500) contributions between one hundred dollars ($100.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00) from one thousand five hundred (1,500) different qualified contributors. As used in this subsection, a "qualified contributor" means a Miami-Dade County registered voter residing in Miami-Dade County or a bank, corporation or unincorporated association (hereinafter "corporate contributor") with a place of business in Miami-Dade County. As used herein, a "place of business" means a physical location in Miami-Dade County where business is conducted as evidenced by an occupational license, a permit or license issued by a governmental entity, or income or property tax returns or notices. A post office box shall not constitute a place of business. These contributions must be in the form of: 1.A personal check drawn on a personal bank account;2.A business check drawn on a corporate or other business bank account;3.Traveler's check that includes the contributor's full name and address; or4.Electronic transfer of funds where the full name of the contributor is clearly stated.c.Each individual contributor shall sign a contributor's statement on forms provided by the Supervisor of Elections that contains the full name, date of birth and voter registration number of the contributor. Each corporate contributor shall sign a contributor's statement on forms provided by the Supervisor of Elections that contains the full name of the business entity, the place of business of the entity and the full name and title of the person executing the business check. d.The maximum number of qualifying contributions that a candidate for the Board of County Commissioners may submit is three hundred and sixty (360). The maximum number of qualifying contributions that a candidate for the Office of Mayor may submit is one thousand eight hundred (1,800). All qualifying contributions shall be submitted at the time the candidate submits his or her application for funds. Each application for funds shall include, among other things, a hard copy of all contributions submitted in support of the application. Each application shall also be submitted on diskettes, CD-ROMs or other approved electronic means utilizing forms prescribed by the Department of Elections and shall include a detailed schedule of all contributions submitted in support of the application including, but not limited to, the name of the contributor, voter registration number if applicable, date of birth if applicable, address of the person or entity making the contribution, amount of contribution and nature of the contribution; and (6)Attend a seminar, along with the campaign treasurer, conducted by the Ethics Commission regarding state and local campaign financing laws which shall be completed prior to the receipt of contributions from the Fund. (d) Election campaign financing; participation in run-off; eligibility. Each candidate for the Office of Mayor of Miami-Dade County or the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County who is in a run-off election and did not participate in the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund prior to the initial election as provided in subsection (c), and desires to receive contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund during the run-off election shall file a request by the filing deadline for such contributions with the filing officer on forms provided by the Miami-Dade County Supervisor of Elections. As used in this subsection (d), "filing deadline" shall mean the third business day after the certification of the results of the initial election. If a candidate requesting contributions from the fund desires to have such funds distributed by electronic fund transfers, the request shall include information necessary to implement that procedure. To be eligible to receive contributions from the Fund during the run-off election, a candidate shall not be an unopposed candidate and shall: (1)Sign a statement of understanding wherein the candidate states that he or she has read, understands and agrees to abide by Section 12-22 of the Code and the applicable Administrative Order regarding the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund. (2)Sign an affidavit stating that the candidate did not exceed the expenditure limits provided in section (e)(1) during the initial election; (3)Limit loans or contributions from the candidate's personal funds to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000); and(4)Submit to audits of the campaign account by the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust as provided in subsection (f)(3).(5)Attend a seminar, along with the campaign treasurer, conducted by the Ethics Commission regarding state and local campaign financing laws which shall be completed prior to the receipt of contributions from the Fund. (e) Expenditure limits. (1)Any candidate for Mayor or the Board of County Commissioners who requests contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund shall limit his or her total expenditures during the initial election as follows: a.Mayor: Six hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($650,000.00).b.Board of County Commissioners: Two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).(2)If a run-off election occurs, a candidate for Mayor may expend a total of four hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($450,000.00), and a candidate for the Board of County Commissioners may expend a total of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) during the run-off election. (3)Expenditure limits shall be adjusted by the Supervisor of Elections quadrennially to reflect the rate of inflation or deflation as indicated in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) calculated by the U.S. Department of Commerce as applied to Miami-Dade County. The first adjustment shall occur in 2005 using the CPI figures provided for the calendar year ended December 31, 2004. Adjustments shall be made thereafter on a quadrennial basis using the CPI figures provided for the calendar year preceding the year of adjustment. (4)For the purposes of this section, the term "expenditure" does not include the payment of compensation for legal and accounting services rendered on behalf of a candidate. (5)Any candidate who requests contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund and subsequently exceeds the expenditure limit set forth in this section shall, within fifteen (15) days from the date the candidate exceeds the limit, pay to the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund an amount equal to the excess expenditures. The total amount required to be paid under this section shall not exceed the total public financing received by the candidate. Such amount shall not be an allowable campaign expense and shall be paid from personal funds of the candidate. (f) Distribution of funds. (1)The Supervisor of Elections shall review each request for contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund and certify whether the candidate is eligible for such contributions. Notice of the certification decision shall be provided to the candidate. (2)An adverse decision may be appealed to a hearing examiner. The Supervisor of Elections shall adopt rules providing a procedure for such appeals. Hearing examiners shall be selected from a panel of retired judges who have served ten (10) or more years as Circuit Judges in the Eleventh Judicial Circuit in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida. Hearing examiners may be selected from alternate sources where the County Attorney recommends in writing that such action is necessary to achieve greater diversity. Appeals shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board and to the County Attorney within ten (10) days of the filing of the Supervisor of Election's decision. Such appeal shall be in writing, shall state the particular grounds on which it is based, shall include all pertinent documents and evidence and shall be accompanied by a bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in a form and with a surety acceptable to the Supervisor of Elections. Any grounds not stated shall be deemed waived. Such bond shall be retained by the Clerk of the Board and shall be returned at the conclusion of the appeal proceedings unless the hearing examiner imposes costs against the appellant and such costs are not separately paid by the appellant within fourteen (14) calendar days of the hearing examiner's decision. The Clerk of the Board shall refer an appeal to a hearing examiner within three (3) business days of receipt of the notice of appeal. The hearing examiner shall hear the appeal within three (3) business days unless otherwise agreed to by the appellant. The decision of the hearing examiner shall be final unless appealed. The decision of the hearing examiner may be appealed pursuant to the Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure. (3)a.Each candidate who has been certified to receive contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund shall be entitled to distribution of funds as provided as follows: 1.Each candidate for the Board of County Commissioners who has satisfied the requirements of subsection (c) shall be entitled to a maximum contribution of seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) from the Election Campaign Trust Fund. Any candidate who has raised between thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) and forty-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety nine dollars ($49,999) and has complied with all of the requirements of subsection (c) shall be entitled to a contribution of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). Any candidate who has raised fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more and has complied with all of the requirements of subsection (c) shall be entitled to a contribution of seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000), which sum shall be disbursed in two (2) installments. The first installment shall be fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) and shall be disbursed within seven (7) days after the Supervisor of Elections has certified that the candidate is eligible for such contribution. The second installment shall be disbursed within seven (7) days after the candidate has submitted his or her 32nd day report, as required by section 106.07, Florida Statutes, and the Supervisor of Elections has determined that the candidate has submitted an additional report which contains sufficient information to allow for the audit of campaign contributions and expenditures ("Campaign Financing Report"). Both the candidate and the candidate's treasurer shall sign each Campaign Financing Report. If a run-off election occurs, a candidate who has satisfied the requirements of subsections (c) or (d) and subsection (e) and has submitted a Campaign Financing Report which contains sufficient information to allow for the audit of campaign contributions and expenditures shall be entitled to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Distribution of funds during a run-off election shall be made within seven (7) days after the Supervisor of Elections has certified that the candidate is eligible for such contribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a candidate shall not be entitled to a distribution from the fund which, when combined with the funds raised by the candidate, would exceed the applicable expenditure limit. Under such circumstances, the candidate shall only be eligible for an amount which, when combined with the funds raised by the candidate, equals the applicable expenditure limit. Both the candidate and the candidate's treasurer shall sign each Campaign Financing Report. Each candidate receiving contributions from the Fund shall submit to a post-election audit of his or her campaign account, and shall within ninety (90) days after the election provide the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust with detailed information to substantiate all campaign contributions and expenditures, which have not been previously substantiated, including, but not limited to, all original cancelled checks, invoices, bank statements, receipts that include the name and business address of the person or entity providing the receipt copies of contracts for consulting services, a breakdown of dates and hours of work provided by campaign staff, copies of 1099s and any other information required by the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust. 2.Each candidate for the Office of Mayor who has satisfied the requirements of subsection (c) shall be entitled to a contribution of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) from the Election Campaign Trust Fund. If a run-off election occurs, a candidate who has satisfied the requirements of subsections (c) or (d) and section (e) shall be entitled to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a candidate shall not be entitled to a distribution from the fund which, when combined with the funds raised by the candidate, would exceed the applicable expenditure limit. Under such circumstances, the candidate shall only be eligible for an amount which, when combined with the funds raised by the candidate, equals the applicable expenditure limit. Distribution of funds shall be made within seven (7) days after the Supervisor of Elections has certified that the candidate is eligible for such contributions. For run-off elections, distribution of funds shall be within seven (7) days from the date of the initial election. Each candidate receiving contributions from the Fund shall submit to a post-election audit of his or her campaign account, and shall within ninety (90) days after the election provide the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust with detailed information to substantiate all campaign contributions and expenditures, which have not been previously substantiated, including, but not limited to, all original cancelled checks, invoices, bank statements, receipts that include the name and business address of the person or entity providing the receipt copies of contracts for consulting services, a breakdown of dates and hours of work provided by campaign staff, copies of 1099s and any other information required by the Commission on Ethics and Public Trust. (4)a.Certification and distribution of funds shall be based upon the eligibility criteria provided in this section. Prior to certifying whether a candidate is eligible for contributions from the Fund, the Inspector General shall perform an independent investigation to determine whether the candidate has satisfied the eligibility requirements of this section. Upon completion of the investigation, the Inspector General shall submit to the Supervisor of Elections a report detailing his or her findings. The Supervisor of Elections shall review each report prior to authorizing the release of funds. The Supervisor of Elections may prescribe separate reporting forms for candidates for Mayor and the Board of County Commissioners. b.A candidate who is eligible for a distribution of funds based upon qualifying contributions received and certified to the Supervisor of Elections as provided in this section, may obligate funds not to exceed the amount which the campaign treasurer's report shows the candidate is eligible to receive from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund without the funds actually being on deposit in the campaign account. c.All funds received by a candidate from the Fund shall be deposited in a sub-account, with separate checks, in the candidate's primary campaign depository as defined in section 106.021, Florida Statutes. All expenditures from the sub-account shall be subject to the expenditures requirements and limitations on the use of funds as provided in this section. (5)The Supervisor of Elections shall adopt rules relating to, among things, reports including, but not limited to, Campaign Financing Reports, and the certification and distribution of funds required by this section. Such rules shall, at a minimum, provide for specifications for printed campaign treasurer's reports outlining the format for such reports, including size of paper, typeface, color of print, and placement of required information on the form. (6)Any candidate required to dispose of surplus funds pursuant to Section 106.141, Florida Statutes, who has received contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund shall, except as provided in this subsection, return all surplus campaign funds to the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund. Any surplus funds in excess of the amount contributed to the candidate by the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund shall be disposed of as provided in Section 106.141, Florida Statutes. (g) Use of Funds. Funds distributed to a candidate from the Fund shall not be used for the following expenditures: (i) clothing for a candidate or an immediate family member of the candidate, with the exception of clothing that is a political advertisement as defined in section 106.001(17), Florida Statutes; (ii) the purchase or rental of any vehicle for a candidate; (iii) the enhancement of any vehicle owned by a candidate or an immediate family member of the candidate; (iv) personal grooming or cosmetic enhancements for a candidate; (v) payment to a candidate or an immediate family member of the candidate for the purchase of any goods or services; and (vii) payment to any corporation, firm, partnership, or business entity owned or controlled by a candidate or an immediate family member of the candidate for the purchase of any goods or services. As used herein, "immediate family member" shall refer to the spouse, parents, children and siblings of the candidate. As used herein, "controlled by" shall mean ownership, directly or indirectly, of five (5) percent or more of the outstanding capital stock in any corporation or direct or indirect interest of five (5) percent or more in a firm, partnership, or other business entity. (h) Candidates voluntarily abiding by election campaign financing limits but not requesting public funds; irrevocable statement required. Not later than qualifying for office, each candidate for the Office of Mayor or the Board of County Commissioners who has not made a request to receive contributions from the Election Campaign Financing Trust Fund, but who wishes to voluntarily abide by the applicable expenditure limit set forth in subsection (e) and the loan or contribution limits on personal funds set forth in subsection (c)(3), shall file an irrevocable statement to that effect with the Supervisor of Elections. Any candidate who files such a statement and subsequently exceeds such limits shall, within fifteen (15) days from the date the candidate exceeds the limits, pay to the Election Campaign Trust Fund an amount equal to the amount of the excess expenditures and/or the amount of the excess personal contributions or loans. Such an amount shall not be an allowable campaign expense and shall be paid from the personal funds of the candidate. (i) Trigger Reporting and Notice of Intention Not to Participate. (1) Trigger Reporting. Whenever a candidate for Mayor or the Board of County Commissioners who has elected to participate in election campaign financing under the provisions of this section receives contributions or makes expenditures that exceed 100 percent of the applicable expenditure ceiling provided in subsection (e), the candidate shall, within 24 hours of reaching that level, file a report with the Supervisor of Elections, on forms to be provided by the Supervisor of Elections, stating that fact and any additional information required by the Supervisor of Elections. All reports required by subsection (i) shall be filed on diskettes, CD-ROMs or other approved electronic means simultaneously with and in addition to an original signed report as required by section 12.17 of the Code. The Supervisor of Elections shall electronically post the reports required by subsection (i) as provided in section 12.18 of the Code. (2) Notice of Intention Not to Participate. Whenever a candidate for Mayor or the Board of County Commissioners elects not to participate in election campaign financing under the provisions of this section, the candidate shall file a Notice of Intention Not to Participate in Campaign Financing ("Notice of Intention") by the filing deadline with the Supervisor of Elections on forms to be provided by the Supervisor of Elections. As used in this subsection (i), "filing deadline" shall mean the last day upon which a candidate may qualify for the elective office sought. For the purposes of this section, a contribution shall not be considered to be received if it is not negotiated, deposited, or utilized, and it is returned to the donor within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt. (j) Enforcement and Penalties. (1) Enforcement by the Ethics Commission. The Ethics Commission shall be empowered to review, interpret, render advisory opinions and letters of instruction and enforce section 12-22 of the Code. In addition to any other penalties which may be applicable, a finding by the Ethics Commission that a person has violated subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) or (i) shall subject said person to an admonition or public reprimand and/or a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first such violation and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each subsequent violation. The Ethics Commission may also order a person to pay restitution when the person or a third party has received a pecuniary benefit as a result of the person's violation. The procedure for determining restitution shall be governed by an administrative order adopted by the County Commission and rules of procedure promulgated by the Ethics Commission. (2) Prosecution by the State Attorney in State Court. In addition to any other penalties which may be applicable, any individual who violates subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) or (i) shall be subject to a fine up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or imprisonment not to exceed three hundred sixty-four (364) days, or both. (3) Action for injunctive and other appropriate relief. In the event that contributions from the Fund have been improperly distributed to a candidate, the State Attorney or Inspector General shall be empowered to seek appropriate relief including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, costs and restitution in a court of competent jurisdiction. (4)Any person who has pled guilty, pled nolo contendere, been found guilty or been convicted of a violation of subsections (e), (f), (g) or (i) as provided in subsections (j)(1) or (j)(2) or of any offense arising out of or relating to the distribution of funds to a candidate shall be barred from receiving funds from the Fund for a period of eight (8) years. A candidate shall also be barred from receiving contributions from the Fund for a period of eight (8) years if a volunteer, agent or employee over whom the candidate has control has pled guilty, pled nolo contendere, been found guilty or been convicted of a violation of subsections (e), (f), (g) or (i) as provided in subsections (j)(1) or (j)(2) or of any offense arising out of or relating to the distribution of funds to a candidate. The term "control" as used in the preceding sentence shall mean the power to prevent a violation from occurring. (Ord. No. 01-39, § 2—11, 3-8-01; Ord. No. 02-22, § 1, 2-12-02; Ord. No. 02-98, § 1, 6-18-02; Ord. No. 02-127, § 1, 7-23-02; Ord. No. 04-91, § 1, 5-11-04; Ord. No. 04-204, § 1, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 05-215, § 1, 12-6-05) Editor's note— Ord. No. 01-39, §§ 2—11, adopted March 8, 2001, did not specifically amend the Code. Hence its inclusion as section 12-22 was at the discretion of the editor. Sec. 12-23. Initiative, referendum and recall petitions—Verification of signatures; disqualification of non-complying petitions; prohibition on improper signature gathering practices.(1)No person may circulate a petition or solicit signatures unless he or she is a registered elector in Miami-Dade County.(2) Form of Petition. All petitions for initiative, referendum, and recall submitted pursuant to Article 7 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter shall be in 12-point font with no more than one signature per page and in a format determined by the Supervisor of Elections; providing, however, each petition shall contain the following information: A.A statement in each petition circulator's own handwriting, setting forth his or her own name, both in printed and signature form. B.The residence address of the circulator.C.Dates between which all the signatures on each individual petition were obtained.D.A sworn statement that the circulator personally circulated the petition, witnessed each signature as it was being written and that to the best information and belief of the circulator, each signature is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be. E.A sworn statement signed by the circulator certifying to the truthfulness and the correctness of the certificate set forth in Section (1)(D) hereof; stating that it is being given under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Florida; and setting forth the date and the place of execution of the certification. F.Any individual who knowingly signs more than one petition or who attempts to sign another person's name, or a fictitious name, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, or by both. G.The title and text in English, Spanish, and Creole of the ordinance or the Charter provision sought to be enacted or repealed.(3) Disqualification of Forms. Within thirty (30) days, excluding weekends and legal holidays, of the date of filing a petition of initiative or referendum, the Supervisor of Elections, or in the case of recall, the Clerk of the Circuit Court, shall disqualify the following petition forms: A.Those that do not include in English, Spanish and Creole the title and text of the ordinance or the Charter provision sought to be enacted or repealed. B.Those that do not comply with any one or more of the provisions relating to the circulator set forth in Section (1) hereof.C.Those where the notary failed to comply with the provisions of F.S. § 117.05, requiring the notary to certify that to the best of his or her knowledge he or she knows the circulator or has seen documentary evidence to substantiate the authenticity of the circulator. D.Those where the notary is the same person as the circulator.E.Those where the signatures of the circulator or notary are dated earlier than the dates on which the electors signed the petition.(4) Disqualification of Signatures. The Supervisor of Elections in the case of the initiative or referendum, or the Clerk of the Circuit Court in the case of recall, shall disqualify the following signatures: A.Those signatures that are not accompanied by a residence address or precinct number of the voter.B.Those signatures that are illegible.C.Those signatures not dated.D.Those signatures representing persons who were not registered voters in Miami-Dade County on the date they signed the petition.E.The second and any additional signatures of an otherwise eligible voter.F.Those signatures that appear different to the extent that it cannot be determined that the person signing the petition and the person who is registered to vote are one and the same. G.Any signature that, within fifteen (15) days, excluding weekends and legal holidays, of the date of filing the petition, the signer, on a form prescribed by the Supervisor of Elections, has withdrawn his or her signature because the signature was fraudulently obtained. (4) Prohibited Signature Gathering Practices A.It shall be unlawful for any person, entity, or elector intentionally to make or cause to be made any false statement concerning the contents or effect of any petition for initiative, referendum, or recall submitted pursuant to Article 7 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter to any person who is requested to sign any such petition or who makes an inquiry with reference to any such petition and who relies on such statement. B.Any person, entity, or elector convicted of a violation of section 12-23(4)A of this Code shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County Jail not more than sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. No. 01-181, §§ 1—3, 11-6-01; Ord. No. 06-167, § 1, 11-28-06; Ord. No. 06-168, § 1, 11-28-06; Ord. No. 07-39, § 1, 3-6-07) Sec. 12-24. Mailing of Voter Identification Cards After Precinct Boundaries Are Changed. Whenever precinct boundaries are changed such that voters must be issued new voter identification cards, the Supervisor of Elections shall, when practicable, mail such cards at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the book closing date for the next countywide election. (Ord. No. 03-03, § 1, 1-23-03) Sec. 12-25. Use of ballot position numbers. This Board authorizes the use of Ballot Position Numbers in elections for Miami-Dade County Commissioners and Mayor. (Ord. No. 04-134, § 1, 7-13-04) Editor's note— Ord. No. 04-134, § 1, adopted July 13, 2004, did not specifically amend the Code. Hence, its inclusion herein as section 12-25 was at the discretion of the editor.

,Chapter 13 EXPLOSIVES [1]

Sec. 13-1. Application of provisions; to whom permit application made.Sec. 13-2. Exceptions.Sec. 13-3. Definitions.Sec. 13-4. County licenses and/or user permits required; types.Sec. 13-5. Applications for County licenses and/or user permits; issuance.Sec. 13-6. Appeals from refusal to issue a County license or user permit and from revocation of a County license or user permit; public hearing; waiver of prior conviction.Sec. 13-7. Application for County user permit for lake excavation within the urban development boundary; public hearing before the Board of County Commissioners.Sec. 13-8. Violations of State laws deemed violation of this chapter, revocation of County license and/or user permit.Sec. 13-9. General requirements.Sec. 13-10. Storage of explosives and blasting agents at blasting sites.Sec. 13-11. Use and handling of explosives.Sec. 13-12. Drilling boreholes and loading explosive material.Sec. 13-13. Misfires.Sec. 13-14. Adverse effects.Sec. 13-15. Preblast survey and notification.Sec. 13-16. Claims.Sec. 13-17. Director of the Public Works Department to issue County licenses and/or user permits.Sec. 13-18. Limitations and conditions.Sec. 13-19. Notice to purchasers of residential property of rock mining operations where blasting is permitted.Sec. 13-20. Blasting records.Sec. 13-21. Waterway blasting operations.Sec. 13-22. Insurance requirements.Sec. 13-23. Penalty for violation.Sec. 13-1. Application of provisions; to whom permit application made. This chapter shall apply to both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida. This chapter shall apply, at blasting sites, to the use and storage of explosives and blasting agents. Application for county licenses and/or user permits required herein shall be made to the Director of the Miami-Dade County Public Works Department. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-2. Exceptions. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to: (a)The armed forces of the United States or the State militia.(b)Explosives in forms prescribed by the official United States Pharmacopoeia.(c)The sale or use of fireworks as defined in Article 29 of the South Florida Fire Prevention Code, as may be amended from time to time, hereinafter referred to as the "County Fire Code." (d)The possession, transportation and use of small arms, ammunition or special industrial explosive devices.(e)The use of explosives or blasting agents by the United States Bureau of Mines, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Secret Service, or police and fire departments acting in their official capacity. (f)The manufacture, sale or transportation of explosives and blasting agents, or their storage as regulated by Article 28 of the South Florida Fire Prevention Code, as may be amended from time to time, hereinafter referred to as the "County Fire Code," except that storage of explosives and blasting agents on blasting sites is herein regulated. (g)The following three situations, but only with respect to the application of amendments in Sections 13-7, 13-15, 13-18, and 13-22 to those three specific situations, on the effective date of the amendments: (1) there is an existing unexpired county user permit for the use of explosives on a specific site, (2) a property has had a final plat approval by the Board of County Commissioners within the past year, or (3) a plat has been recorded within the past five (5) years. The properties covered by this exception shall be governed by the Code as it existed prior to the adoption of the above enumerated amendments. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-3. Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. (a) Blast area: The area in which concussion (shock wave), flying material, or gases from an explosion may cause injury to persons. In determining the blast area, the following factors shall be considered: (1)Geology or material to be blasted.(2)Blast pattern.(3)Burden, depth, diameter, and angle of the holes.(4)Blasting experience of the operation.(5)Delay system, powder factor, and pounds per delay.(6)Type and amount of explosive material.(7)Type and amount of stemming.(b) Blaster: An individual who must be employed by a user and properly licensed, who detonates or otherwise effects the explosion of an explosive or who is in immediate personal charge and supervision of one (1) or more other persons engaged in such activity. (c) Blasting agent: Any material or mixture, consisting of a fuel and oxidizer, intended for blasting, not otherwise classified as an explosive, in which none of the ingredients is classified as an explosive, provided that the finished product, as mixed and packaged for use or shipment, cannot be detonated by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap when unconfined. Materials or mixtures classified as nitro carbo nitrates by the Department of Transportation regulations shall be included in this definition. (d) Blast site: The area where explosive material is handled during loading including the perimeter formed by the blastholes and fifty (50) feet in all directions from loaded holes. The fifty-foot requirement also applies in all directions along the full depth of the hole. (e) Carrier: Person who engages in the transportation of particles or materials by rail, highway, water or air. (Regulated by Article 28 of the County Fire Code). (f) Dealer: A person engaged in the wholesale or retail business of buying and selling explosives; provided that should a manufacturer-distributor make sales to users, such manufacturer shall not be required to obtain an additional license as a dealer. (Regulated by Article 28 of the County Fire Code). (g) Detonator: Any device containing a detonating charge that is used for initiating detonation in an explosive. The term includes, but is not limited to, electric blasting caps of instantaneous and delay types, blasting caps for use with safety fuses, detonating cord delay connectors, and nonelectric instantaneous and delay blasting caps. (h) Director: The Director of the Miami-Dade County Public Works Department. (i) Explosive: Any mixture, compound or material capable of producing an explosion, including but not limited to dynamite, nitroglycerin, trinitrotoluene, blasting caps and detonators; but not including cartridges for firearms, and not including fireworks as defined in (the) County Fire Code. (j) Helper: An individual who assists the user or blaster and who is licensed to handle but not to purchase, possess or detonate explosives. (k) Magazine: Any building or structure approved for the storage of explosives. (l) Manufacturer-distributor: A person engaged in the manufacture, production and distribution of explosives to others for resale or use. (Regulated by Article 28 of the County Fire Code). (m) Person: Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation, or legal entity. (n) Purchase: As used herein shall include acquisition of any explosive by a person with or without consideration. (o) Small arms ammunition: Any shotgun, rifle, or handgun ammunition. (p) Special industrial explosive device: Any explosive power-pak containing an explosive charge in the form of a cartridge or construction device. The term includes but is not limited to explosive rivets, explosive bolts, explosive charges for driving pins or studs, cartridges for explosive-actuated power tools and charges of explosives used in pet tapping of open hearth furnaces and jet perforation of oil well casings. (q) Special industrial high explosive material: Sheets, extrusions, pellets and packages of high explosives, containing dynamite, trinitrotoluene, pentaerythritoltetrate, cyclotrimethylene-trinitramine, or other similar compounds used for high-energy-rate forming, expanding and shaping metal fabrication, and for dismemberment and quick reduction of scrap metal. (r) Terminal: Those facilities used by carriers for the receipt, transfer, temporary storage or delivery of articles or materials. (Regulated by Article 28 of the County Fire Code.) (s) Test blasting cap No. 8: One (1) containing two (2) grams of mixture of eighty (80) percent mercury fulminate and twenty (20) percent potassium chlorate, or a cap of equivalent strength. (t) Two pound user: Same as user as described in Section 13-3(u) except with the following limitation: that the amount of explosives to be used at any one (1) time whether fired or detonated as a single charge or delay series does not exceed the total explosive power or capacity of two (2) pounds of forty (40) percent dynamite. (u) User: The person who conducts an operation that requires the use of explosives or blasting agents, purchases same from a dealer or manufacturer-distributor, or acquires the possession of any explosive by any other means. A user shall be responsible for the consequences of all its blasting activity involving explosives or blasting agents and shall ensure that all its personnel handling or using same are properly licensed by the County. A user shall possess a county user permit in the name of one (1) or more individuals who shall obtain this County user permit in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section 13-5 and/or section 13-7 as applicable. (v) Recognized standards and references shall mean the most restrictive applicable blasting standard or reference on the particular issue (i.e., air blast, vibration, scaled distance factor, etc.) among, but not limited to, the following: United States Bureau of Mines' Reports of Investigations, Information Circulars, papers, and presentations; International Society of Explosives Engineers' conference proceedings, relevant blasting reports, information circulars, and presentations; the American National Standards Institute's standards and reports on explosives, blasting and related subjects; and United States or State Agencies' regulations and reports. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-4. County licenses and/or user permits required; types.(a)It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an operation that requires the use of explosives or blasting agents, acquire, possess, purchase, handle, dispose of, store or use same on any site without first obtaining a county license and/or user permit issued under and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The requirements of this chapter shall not relieve any person from compliance with the provisions of Chapter 552 of the Florida Statutes and all rules and regulations promulgated by the State Fire Marshal and Article 28 of the County Fire Code. (b)It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase or store explosives or blasting agents, to conduct an operation that requires the use of explosives or blasting agents, to drill boreholes for the purpose of blasting or to engage in blasting at any site without first obtaining a County user permit. This restriction shall not include the drilling of exploratory test borings at a minimum distance of fifty (50) feet apart. (c)It shall be unlawful for any individual to perform or supervise the handling or detonation of explosives or blasting agents at any site without first obtaining a County blaster license. (d)It shall be unlawful for any individual to handle explosives while assisting a blaster without first obtaining a helper's license. A person possessing a helper's license may only handle explosives at an approved site under the direct supervision of an individual possessing a County blaster license. (e)County licenses and/or user permits required by Section 13-4(a) shall not be issued for: (1)Liquid nitroglycerin.(2)Nitrocellulose in a dry and uncompressed condition in quantity greater than ten (10) pounds net weight in one (1) package.(3)Fulminate of mercury in a dry condition and fulminate of all other metals in any condition except as a component of manufactured articles not hereinafter forbidden. (4)Explosive compositions that ignite spontaneously or undergo marked decomposition, rendering the products or their use more hazardous, when subjected for forty-eight (48) consecutive hours or less to a temperature of one hundred sixty-seven (167) degrees Fahrenheit (seventy-five (75) degrees Celsius). (5)New explosives until approved by the United States Department of Transportation, except that County licenses and/or user permits may be issued to educational, governmental or industrial laboratories for instructional or research purposes. (6)Explosives condemned by the United States Department of Transportation.(7)Explosives not packed or marked in accordance with the "Hazardous Materials Regulations of the United States Department of Transportation." (8)Explosives containing an ammonium salt and a chlorate. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-5. Applications for County licenses and/or user permits; issuance. All applications for County user permits and County blaster licenses or helper licenses required under this chapter shall be filed with the Director of the Public Works Department or his designee and shall set forth in detail the purpose for which the County license and/or user permit is sought in relation to explosives, the full name and address of the applicant, his or her physical description, his or her fingerprints, and such other information as may be prescribed by the Director, and shall be accompanied by an accurate photograph of the applicant. Such application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant. The Director shall prescribe the form of applications and furnish such application forms to applicants upon request. County blaster and helper licenses are not transferable. A County user permit shall be transferable so long as the transferee meets all the requirements of this chapter. No County license and/or user permit shall be issued to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, or who is addicted to the excessive use of alcohol, narcotics, drugs, stimulants, or depressants, or who, as a result of a physical or mental deficiency, cannot reasonably be expected to safely handle or utilize explosives or blasting agents, or who has been convicted of a felony. An applicant for a County user permit or County blaster's license must prove himself or herself thoroughly competent and familiar with explosives to be used and with the operation to be performed and with applicable regulations by an examination prepared and administered by the Director or his designee. The burden shall rest upon the applicant to establish his or her qualifications for the issuance of a County license or user permit. The County user permit issued hereunder shall show the purpose for which it is to be used, the location and the period of time for which it is valid. The County license issued hereunder shall show the purpose for which is to be used, and the period of the time for which it is valid. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-6. Appeals from refusal to issue a County license or user permit and from revocation of a County license or user permit; public hearing; waiver of prior conviction. Any individual who is denied or refused a County license or any person who is denied or refused a County user permit for reasons other than as provided in Section 13-7 or whose County license or user permit has been revoked by the Director of the Public Works Department for reasons other than as provided in Section 13-7, may appeal to the Construction Trades Qualifying Board Division A, by filing a written petition of review setting forth the reasons why his application for a County license or user permit should have been granted, provided, however, that the Construction Trades Qualifying Board shall have no jurisdiction to entertain any such appeal unless a written petition or request for review is filed with the Secretary of the Construction Trades Qualifying Board within thirty (30) days after the date upon which the applicant receives notice that his application for a County license or user permit has been denied or refused or revoked. When an appeal has been filed, the Construction Trades Qualifying Board shall conduct a public hearing to determine whether the applicant qualifies for a County license or user permit. The Construction Trades Qualifying Board shall not authorize the granting of a County license or user permit unless it finds and determines that the applicant is qualified under the provisions of Section 13-5. The prohibition against issuance of a County license or user permit to any person who has been convicted of a felony may be waived by the Construction Trades Qualifying Board, provided that such conviction occurred more that ten (10) years prior to the date of filing the application, and that the applicant has rehabilitated himself or herself completely. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-7. Application for County user permit for lake excavation within the urban development boundary; public hearing before the Board of County Commissioners.(a)Except in the case of a two (2) pound County user permit all County user permit applications for lake excavations that lie within the urban development boundary (UDB) as shown on the adopted comprehensive master plan as authorized by Section 2-114 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, must be approved by the Board of County Commissioners. A County user permit application for a lake excavation that lies within the UDB shall be verified by the owner or the lessee of the property upon which the work is proposed. If the application for a County user permit for a lake excavation that lies within the UDB is verified by a lessee, an affidavit from the owner of the property indicating that the owner has no objection to the work proposed shall be submitted with the application. (b)In addition to the application requirements of Section 13-5, a County user permit application for a lake excavation within the UDB which is filed with the Director of the Public Works Department shall include, as a minimum, the following: (1)Evidence of ownership or a lease of the property upon which the lake excavation is proposed. Said evidence of ownership or lease may include, at the discretion of the Public Works Department, an affidavit of ownership or lease executed by the owner and/or lessee of the property. (2)Three (3) copies of a plan or sketch of the proposed lake excavation(s) to include location, size and depth.(3)A written statement signed by the County user permit applicant or the applicant's authorized agent stating that, if approval is granted for the proposed work by the Board of County Commissioners, complete and detailed plans and calculations of the proposed work shall be prepared by an engineer licensed in the State of Florida in accordance with the Miami-Dade County Public Works Manual. Said plans and calculations shall be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works Department. (4)Certification by an engineer licensed in the State of Florida, who is qualified by education and experience in the area of construction that, to the best of the engineer's knowledge and belief, the proposed work does not violate any laws, rules or regulations of the State of Florida or any provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County which may be applicable. (5)A geotechnical report prepared and signed by an engineer licensed in the State of Florida having expertise in the geotechnical field. This geotechnical report shall provide a concise soil and rock strata description of the area proposed to be excavated, supported by the appropriate soil boring results of the site. The geotechnical report must give full consideration for excavating the lakes without the use of explosives. If explosives are recommended, impact to nearby residential, commercial or industrial areas must be addressed. The report should state how the requirements of this chapter will be met. (6)Names and addresses from the latest County tax rolls of all owners of property within one (1) mile of the perimeter of the proposed lake excavation. (7)If the proposed work is within an incorporated area of the County, a letter from the zoning department of that incorporated area, stating that the proposed usage of the property upon which the proposed work would occur does not violate any zoning law applicable to the area of the proposed work. (8)The applicant, at his or her discretion, may provide evidence of public interest relating to the proposed work.(c)Obtaining approval from the Board of County Commissioners:(1)The Director of the Public Works Department shall review the County user permit application for the proposed lake excavation that lies within the UDB and shall make a recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners of approval, denial, or approval subject to conditions, limitations or restrictions for the proposed work. The Director's recommendation shall be based upon the applicable evaluation factors set forth in Section 13-7(d) of this Code. The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing concerning the proposed lake excavation that lies within the UDB. A notice of the time and place of said public hearing shall be published by the applicant in a newspaper of general circulation in Miami-Dade County a minimum of fourteen (14) days prior to the public hearing. Said notice shall include a brief description of the proposed work and the location of the proposed work. A courtesy notice containing substantially the same information set forth in said published notice shall be mailed by the County to those parties whose names appear on the application as the owners of property within one (1) mile of the perimeter of the proposed lake excavation. Failure to mail or receive said courtesy notice shall not affect any action or proceeding taken hereunder. The Board of County Commissioners shall, after holding the public hearing, approve, deny, or approve subject to conditions, limitations or restrictions, the lake excavation proposed under the permit application based upon the applicable evaluation factors set forth in Section 13-7(d) of this Code. (2)If the Board of County Commissioners approves a permit application, the Public Works Department shall issue the County user permit subject to the conditions, limitations or restrictions required by the Board of County Commissioners. The Director of the Public Works Department is authorized from time to time to change, amend or modify the imposed conditions and limitations regarding any County user permit in order to meet the purpose for which they were imposed if changing conditions or circumstances so dictate and after first considering recognized standards and references, any relevant historical data, studies, and results obtained during the regulation of blasting operations in Miami-Dade County, the adverse effects under Section 13-14, and the guidelines enumerated under Section 13-18. The Director of the Public Works Department is further authorized to revoke a County user permit for failure of the permittee to comply with any conditions, restrictions, or limitations placed on such County user permit. (d)Factors for evaluation of County user permit applications within the UDB: Miami-Dade County Public Works Department shall base its recommendation for approval, denial or approval subject to conditions, limitations, or restrictions, and the Board of County Commissioners shall make its decision for approval, denial, or approval subject to conditions, limitations or restrictions, for any of the permits provided for under this article, upon the following evaluation factors, when applicable: (1)Potential adverse effects of the proposed blasting project as prescribed by Section 13-14 with respect to preventing damage to property, preventing personal injury or loss of life, protecting the public health, welfare and safety and the reduction of nuisance. (2)Conformance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.(3)The recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners as to approval or denial from the municipality within which the proposed work is located. (4)All materials submitted with the application as required by this section.(e)Appeals:(1)Any individual or person appearing of record at any hearing held pursuant to this section may, within thirty (30) days, appeal the decision of the Board of County Commissioners to the Circuit Court. (2)Any person whose County user permit, which has been authorized by the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to this section, is subsequently revoked by the Director of the Public Works Department may, within thirty (30) days, appeal such revocation to the Board of County Commissioners. (f)Time of completion of blasting work; extension of completion time; timely application for extension of time.(1)All blasting work authorized by a County user permit for a lake excavation within the UDB issued pursuant to this article shall begin no later than three (3) months after Board of County Commission approval and shall be completed within eighteen (18) months from the date of the issuance of the first County user permit for said lake excavation or any extension thereof, unless another period of time is provided by the Board of County Commissioners as set forth in the resolution authorizing approval for the issuance of a County user permit. (2)Extensions of time for completion of work being performed pursuant to a County user permit issued pursuant to this article may be granted by the Director of the Public Works Department or his designee provided that: a.The application form for the extension of time is filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the County user permit. b.The application form for the extension of time is filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the County user permit. c.The Director has determined that the applicant for the extension of time has affirmatively established by competent factual data and information in the application that: 1.There have been no substantial changes in the surrounding area that may be affected by the permitted work.2.Neither an adverse impact nor cumulative adverse impact will occur if the extension of time is granted.3.The work authorized by the County user permit has been performed, to date, in accordance with the County user permit and its restrictions, limitations or conditions. 4.The applicant for the extension of time has agreed to any additional conditions, limitations or restrictions if required by the Director. (3)Applications for extensions of time which are not timely filed pursuant to Section 13-7(f)(2) hereinabove shall be returned to the applicant. The applicant shall be required to file an application for a new County user permit pursuant to the provisions of this article. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-8. Violations of State laws deemed violation of this chapter, revocation of County license and/or user permit. Any person who violates any of the provisions of Chapter 552, Florida Statutes, or any of the regulations of the State Fire Marshal promulgated thereunder, shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this chapter and may be prosecuted in the proper court. County licenses and/or user permits issued hereunder shall be revoked for any violation of this chapter or of the State law or of regulations of the State Fire Marshal. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-9. General requirements.(a) Stolen explosives, reporting. In the event that any explosive is stolen, misplaced, or lost, such occurrence shall be reported immediately to the directors of public works, Miami-Dade Police Department, Miami-Dade Fire and Rescue Departments, and the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. The area in which the incident occurs shall be secured until investigation has been made and the scene released by the proper authority. (b) Sale to person without County user permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or otherwise dispose of any explosive to any person who does not have a valid County user permit issued hereunder or under the provisions of Article 28 of the County Fire Code. (c) Inventory, reporting. Every user having any explosive in his possession, dominion or control shall file with the Director on the fifteenth day of each and every month, a schedule or inventory accurately setting forth the quantity and description of such explosives on a form prescribed by the Director. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-10. Storage of explosives and blasting agents at blasting sites.(a)Blasting agents and explosives, including special industrial high explosive materials, shall be stored in accordance with the requirements of Article 28 of the South Florida Fire Prevention Code (adopted as part of Chapter 14 of the Miami-Dade County Code), Florida Statutes Chapter 552, or any of the regulations of the State Fire Marshal promulgated thereunder, and Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations Part 55, Commerce in Explosives,. Sub Part K-Storage. In case of conflict between codes and regulations, the more stringent shall apply. (b)Every person in possession of any explosive shall cause the same to be stored in a safe place and shall maintain such security measures as shall be reasonably necessary to prevent all unauthorized persons from gaining access to such explosives. Any person who shall fail to use reasonable precautions for the security and safety of explosives in his or her possession shall be deemed guilty of violating this chapter, and subject to the penalties provided for herein, and in addition thereto, shall be subject to revocation of his or her County license and/or user permit. (c)Magazine operations.(1)Smoking, matches, open flames and spark producing devices shall be prohibited inside or within fifty (50) feet of magazines. Combustible materials shall not be stored within fifty (50) feet of magazines. (2)The land surrounding magazines shall be kept clear of brush, dried grass, leaves, trash and debris for a distance of at least fifty (50) feet. (3)Magazines shall be kept locked except when being inspected or when explosives are being placed therein or being moved therefrom.(4)Packages of explosives shall not be unpacked or repacked in a magazine nor within fifty (50) feet of a magazine nor in close proximity to other explosives. (5)Magazines shall be kept clean, dry, and free of grit, paper, empty packages and rubbish. Floors shall be regularly swept. Brooms and other cleaning utensils shall have no spark producing metal parts. Floors stained by leakage from explosive material shall be cleaned according to instructions of the manufacturer. (6)When an explosive has deteriorated to an extent that it is in an unstable or dangerous condition, or if nitroglycerin leaks from any explosive, then the person in possession of such explosive shall immediately report the fact to the Director of the Public Works Department and upon his authorization shall proceed to destroy such explosives and magazines in accordance with the instruction of the manufacturer. Only experienced persons shall do the work of destroying explosives. (7)The user or blaster shall be in charge of the magazine and shall be held responsible for the enforcement of all safety precautions. All magazines shall be furnished with locking devices that conform to the provisions of Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations Part 55, Commerce in Explosives, Sub Part K-Storage. At any time that a magazine does not have such locks in an operating condition then a twenty-four-hour security guard must be furnished. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-11. Use and handling of explosives.(a)Blasting operations shall be conducted during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. except that the Director of the Public Works Department may extend the blasting time to all daylight hours for sites remote from residential development. Blasting shall not be done on Sundays or legal holidays except in emergencies involving the health, safety and welfare of the public. (b)The handling and firing of explosives shall be performed by the person possessing a County blaster license or by County helper license holders under his or her direct supervision who are at least eighteen (18) years old. When two (2) or more blasters are working together, one (1) shall be the blaster-in-charge designated by the user or the blasters themselves. (c)No person shall handle explosives while under the influence of intoxicants, or narcotics.(d)No person shall smoke or carry matches while handling explosives or while in the vicinity thereof.(e)No open flame light shall be used in the vicinity of explosives.(f)Whenever blasting is being conducted in the vicinity of gas, electric, water, fire alarm, telephone, telegraph or steam utilities which may be affected by adverse effects as prescribed by Section 13-14(a), (b), and (c), the user shall notify the appropriate representative of such utilities at least forty-eight (48) hours, excluding days other than business days, in advance of blasting, specifying the location and intended time of such blasting. Verbal notice shall be confirmed with written notice. In an emergency this time limit may be waived by the Director. The user shall comply with all applicable notification provisions of Chapter 556 of Florida Statutes, "Underground Facility Damage Prevention and Safety Act," as amended from time to time. (g)Blasting operations shall be conducted in accordance with nationally recognized good practice.(h)Before a blast is fired, the person in charge shall make certain that all surplus explosives are in a safe place, all persons and vehicles are at a safe distance or under sufficient cover, and a loud warning signal has been sounded. (i)Firing with cap and fuse will not be approved for use unless specifically approved for job site by the Director.(j)Due precautions shall be taken to prevent accidental discharge of electric blasting caps from current induced by radio or radar transmitters, lighting, adjacent power lines, dust storms or other sources of extraneous electricity. These precautions shall include: (1)The suspension of all blasting operations and removal of persons from the blast area during the approach and progress of an electric storm. (2)The posting of signs warning against the use of mobile radio transmitters on all roads within three hundred fifty (350) feet of the blasting operations. (3)Compliance with nationally recognized good practice when blasting in the vicinity of radio transmitters or power lines.(k)When blasting is done in congested areas or in close proximity to a building, structure, railway, highway or any other installation that may be damaged, the blast shall be covered before firing, with a mat constructed so that it is capable of preventing rock from being thrown into the air. (l)Tools used for opening packages of explosives shall be constructed of nonsparking materials.(m)Empty boxes and paper and fiber packing materials which have previously contained high explosives shall not be used again for any purpose, but shall be destroyed by burning at an approved isolated location out of doors, and no person shall be nearer than one hundred (100) feet after the burning has started. (n)Explosives shall not be abandoned.(o)Personal vehicles shall not be stopped or parked within five hundred (500) feet of a magazine or blast site. The Director may waive this provision for certain vehicles as requested by the user in written application. This section is not intended to exclude vehicles used in the blasting or quarrying operation. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-12. Drilling boreholes and loading explosive material.(a)All drill holes shall be checked prior to loading to determine depth and condition. Holes shall be cleared of any obstructions prior to loading. (b)Machines and all tools not used for loading explosives into boreholes shall be removed from immediate location of holes before explosives are delivered. Equipment shall not be operated within fifty (50) feet of loaded holes. (c)Loading shall not commence until all drilling is completed, unless this procedure is impracticable under conditions encountered. When conditions justify simultaneous loading and drilling in the same blast area, such operations shall be separated as widely as practicable and in no case less than the length of the deepest hole in the shot or fifty (50) feet whichever is greater. (d)No vehicular traffic shall be permitted over loaded holes.(e)No loaded holes will be left unattended or unprotected. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-13. Misfires.(a)The blaster shall inspect the entire blast site for misfires before allowing other personnel to return to the blast area.(b)If a misfire is found, the blaster shall provide the proper safeguards for excluding all personnel from the blast area.(c)No other work shall be done except that necessary to remove the hazard of the misfire. Only those personnel necessary to do the work shall remain at the blast site. (d)No attempt shall be made to extract explosive materials from a misfired hole. A new primer shall be inserted, and the hole shall be refired. If refiring presents a hazard, the explosive materials may be washed out with water, or, where the misfire is under water, blown out with air. (e)If there are any misfires using cap and fuse, all personnel shall stay out of the blast site for at least one (1) hour. If there are any misfires using other nonelectric detonators (i.e., other than cap and fuse) or using electric detonators, all personnel shall stay out of the blast site for at least thirty (30) minutes. (f)Misfires shall be handled under the direction of a qualified blaster.(g)If a misfire is suspected, all initiating circuits (electric or non-electric) shall be carefully traced and a search made for unexploded charges. (h)No drilling or digging, except as necessary to safely remedy a misfire problem, shall be allowed until all misfires have been detonated or until the authority having jurisdiction approves the resumption of work. (i)All misfires or premature detonations shall be reported in writing to the Director within three (3) days of such occurrence. The blaster shall provide information regarding the date and time of the occurrence, type of explosives and initiation system used, and the cause of the malfunction if it is known. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-14. Adverse effects.(a)Maximum allowable airblast measured at the nearest building or structure not owned by the user, or when measured at a distance of five thousand two hundred eighty (5,280) feet from the blast shall not exceed one hundred twenty-nine (129) decibels when measured by an instrument having a flat frequency response over a range of at least 6 to 200 hertz. If the airblast is measured with an instrument having a flat frequency measure over a range of at least 2 to 200 hertz, the corresponding limit is one hundred thirty-three (133) decibels. (b)Fly rock traveling in the air or along the ground:(1)Shall remain within the controlled blast area and;(2)Shall not be cast from the blast site more than one-half (½) the distance to the nearest inhabited building within or outside the controlled blast area. (c)Ground vibration shall be measured as particle velocity. The maximum allowable peak particle velocity shall not exceed 0.75 inch per second measured at the nearest building or structure not owned by the user or when measured at a distance of five thousand two hundred eighty (5,280) feet from the blast when the nearest structure not owned by the user is more distant than one (1) mile from the blast. Particle velocity shall be recorded in three (3) mutually perpendicular directions. The maximum allowable peak particle velocity shall apply to each of the three (3) measurements. (d)Whenever blasting in the vicinity of a utility as set forth in Section 13-11(f) the user shall protect said utility from damage by establishment of a maximum allowable vibration level submitted by the user and agreed to in writing by the person from the utility who has authority to enter into said agreement. If there is a dispute between the user and the utility, the Director shall determine the maximum allowable vibration level. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-15. Preblast survey and notification. In order to provide a baseline record of the condition of a structure against which the effects of blasting can be assessed, to help the user to maintain good community relations, and to provide possible protection against later legal claims of damage, the user shall offer, at his or her cost, the following preblast survey and notification for each new blast site: (a)All structures within a Scaled-Distance Factor of 150 of the proposed blast site shall be inspected by an independent, recognized seismologist, vibration engineer, structural engineer, or their representative. The Scaled-Distance Factor shall be determined by the following formula: Scaled-Distance Factor = D/W where W is the charge weight, in pounds, of explosives per delay and D is the distance, in feet, from the blast site to the structure not owned by the user. If occupants of a structure refuse inspection or access is not possible, the user shall notify the Director in writing of the address of said structure. (b)The preblast survey inspection shall consist of complete documentation of all visible interior and exterior defects observed at the structures examined. A list of all preblast surveys shall be forwarded to the Director for approval no later than five (5) days prior to the planned commencement of blasting. A location map indicating the streets and structures involved shall be submitted together with this list. (c)An update survey of any additions, modifications or renovations requiring a building permit shall be performed on previously inspected structures if requested by a resident or owner. (d)The user shall provide written notification of pending blast operations to all residents within one (1) mile of the proposed blast site at least ten (10) but no more than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of blasting. The written notification shall describe the blasting which will take place, its expected effects, and how to contact the user or his or her representative with any blast related complaints or claims. (e)If blasting is suspended in an area for a period of ninety (90) days or longer, renotification of all residents within one (1) mile shall be accomplished at least seven (7) days prior to the recommencement of blasting. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-16. Claims.(a)All claims of property damage arising out of the use of explosives shall be acknowledged by the user (or the user's agent) and notification given to the Director within seven (7) days of receipt. The notification to the Director shall include the following information: (1)Date and time of the claim.(2)Name, address, and telephone number of the claimant.(3)Nature of the claim.(b)The user shall promptly process any and all property damage claims. The user is responsible to ensure that the claimed damage will be inspected within a reasonable time not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days of initial receipt of the claim and shall estimate the total amount of the damages claimed and provide the claimant and the Director with a copy of the estimate. Based on the estimated amount of damages, any claim that falls within the jurisdiction of the County Court shall be honored, denied or compromised within six (6) months of the date of inspection. All other claims shall, after the initial inspection and estimate, be promptly and diligently processed to a conclusion. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-17. Director of the Public Works Department to issue County licenses and/or user permits.(a)The Director of the Public Works Department is hereby authorized to:(1)Issue County user permits and County blaster licenses only to persons who hold state licenses or permits required by Florida law and who meet the requirements of this chapter. (2)Issue County helper licenses in accord with and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.(b)Such County licenses and/or user permits shall be issued only after:(1)Payment of a fee established by administrative order which shall not become effective until approved by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. (2)The filing of an application on a form prescribed by the Director signed and sworn to be the applicant showing the applicant's name, address, that he or she holds a valid State License and/or permit, the location or locations where the blasting is to be performed, that blasting at such location is authorized or permitted pursuant to County or municipal zoning regulations, and the distance between the location of the proposed blasting and any improved property. (3)The issuance of a County user's permit shall not authorize blasting in any area or location where the same is prohibited by any zoning regulations or other law, and shall be limited to the location designated in the application; provided, however, that if the amount of explosives to be used at any one (1) time whether fired or detonated as a single charge or by delay series does not exceed the total explosive power or capacity of two (2) pounds of forty (40) percent dynamite, the Director is authorized to issue a two-pound County user permit for the use of such amount of explosives without the same being limited to a particular location, provided, further, that the firing, detonating or exploding of any quantity of explosives on or against a boulder, rock strata, stump, tree or other object, or on the ground surface or in the open air and not confined in a bore, hole or any blasting commonly referred to as mudcapping or adobe blasting, is prohibited unless upon application and the payment of the required fee a user is granted a special user's permit for each and every location where such blasting is to be performed. (c)The Public Works Director is hereby authorized to revoke and/or to suspend County licenses and/or user permits for the following reasons: (1)Noncompliance with any order of the issuing authority within the time specified in such order.(2)In the event that the County license or user permit applicant or holder is under indictment for, or has been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one (1) year. (3)In the event the applicant is a fugitive from justice.(4)In the event the applicant is an unlawful user of, or is addicted to narcotics or dangerous drugs.(5)In the event the applicant has been adjudicated as mentally incompetent.(6)In the event that the County license or user permit applicant or holder suffers from a mental or physical defect that would reasonably interfere with the applicant's safe handling of explosives. (7)Violation by the County license or user permit applicant or holder of any provision of any explosives law or regulation; or in the event that false information was given or a misrepresentation was made to obtain the County license or user permit. (d)Appeal from revocation and/or suspension may be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 13-6 or Section 13-7(e) as applicable. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-18. Limitations and conditions.(a)The Director of the Public Works Department shall impose in each County user permit issued by him or her such limitations and conditions as to: (1)Days and hours when blasting may be performed.(2)The period of time for which it is valid.(3)The amount and type of explosive which may be employed at any one (1) time, whether fired or detonated instantaneously as a single charge or by a delay series charge, as may be deemed by him or her reasonable under the conditions existing in the locale for which the County user permit is issued. The Director may impose conditions concerning borehole stemming. (4)Vibration limits within the urban development boundary (UDB). Vibration limits measured within the UDB may be reduced to a peak particle velocity as low as 0.1 inch per second, after first considering recognized standards and references, and any relevant historical data, studies, and results obtained during the regulation of blasting operations in Miami-Dade County. The Director may conduct a series of tests witnessed by neighborhood property owners to determine acceptable limits of vibration, after first considering recognized standards and references, and any relevant historical data, studies, and results obtained during the regulation of blasting operations in Miami-Dade County. (b)In determining and imposing such reasonable conditions and limitations the Director, with the assistance of the Fire Chief, shall be governed by preventing damage to property, preventing personal injury or loss of life, protecting the public health, welfare and safety and the reduction of nuisance. (c)The Director is authorized from time to time to change, amend or modify the imposed conditions and limitations regarding any County user permit in order to meet the purpose for which they were imposed if changing conditions or circumstances so dictate. It is intended here that the Director may impose more restrictive conditions and limitations if circumstances and conditions in the area concerned so warrant or prove to be necessary in order to carry out the purpose for which the conditions and limitations were imposed. If such conditions and limitations are found by the Director to be too restrictive, he or she may modify them accordingly within the bounds of the purposes for which they were imposed. However, the imposed limitations and conditions as to the amount of explosives authorized in any County user permit shall not be increased by the Director until and unless the user shall first demonstrate to the Director by good and sufficient evidence that the desired increase would not in any event provoke or result in adverse effects as prescribed by Section 13-14 hereof. The Director will require, in order to protect the public health, welfare or safety, the user to submit a recognized instrument test for any blasting operations to ascertain that the above described limits are not exceeded at the nearest building, or structure not owned by the user. In the event that the Director determines that measurements from more than one (1) location are necessary, the user shall be responsible for supplying any and all additional instrument testing. The Director may specify the location at which measurements are taken and the degree of detail necessary in the measurement. Any actions taken by the Director under authority granted by this subsection shall only be taken after the Director has first considered recognized standards and references, the guidelines enumerated above in subsections (a) and (b), and any relevant historical data, studies, and results obtained during the regulation of blasting operations in Miami-Dade County. (d)The blaster shall provide, at his or her cost, a seismic instrument at each site. Such instrument may be removed from a site, after written notice has been given to the Director of Public Works, when the blasting at the site has been completed or indefinitely suspended. (e)The Director shall be notified of any scheduled blast. The user shall call the Director at least two (2) hours prior to scheduled blasting to indicate the location, pattern, quantities of explosives being used, and the time of detonation as can best be determined. Should any blast be more than thirty (30) minutes from the proposed time set, renotification to the Director will be required. The user shall call and notify the Director immediately after each blast to give the exact time of detonation in order for the Director to identify a particular blast with any complaints which may be received. (f)Any user who exceeds in a single blasting event the maximum peak particle velocity (PPV) limit established by the user permit by .05 inch per second as measured at any occupied residential unit located within the adopted (2005) UDB and within two (2) miles of a specific blasting site shall be subject to a civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Any subsequent blast at the same blast site within a calendar year of the first violation which exceeds the PPV limit as provided herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). A third violation at the same site during the same calendar year of the second violation shall result in a fine of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and blasting at that site will be suspended pending an expedited hearing before the Construction Trades Qualifying Board. A finding by that Board that a violation has occurred shall result in a revocation of the permit or non-issuance of any subsequent permit for the remainder of that calendar year or a period of six (6) months, whichever period of time is greater. After revocation or non-issuance, a permit for the remainder of the calendar year can only be reinstated or issued by action of the Board of County Commissioners at a public hearing. All fines collected hereunder shall be placed in a separate fund and expended solely for the purposes of offsetting the costs of regulation under this chapter. (Ord. No. 98-15, § 1, 2-3-98) Sec. 13-19. Notice to purchasers of residential property of rock mining operations where blasting is permitted.(a)Any person constructing a residential structure located within two (2) miles of a permitted rock mining operation where blasting is permitted shall, prior to the issuance of the first development permit, record in the public records a notice that the proposed development is located within two (2) miles of a blasting site. The notice shall provide the location of the blasting site and that such blasting is regulated by Chapter 13 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. Notice shall be given to and signed by buyers contemporaneous with signing purchase contracts within said developments. (b)The Director of the Miami-Dade County Public Works Department and the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning shall maintain detailed maps of all permitted rock mining operations where blasting is permitted within Miami-Dade County. Any developer may request a written opinion from the Director of Public Works as to whether his or her development is located within the two-mile area. (c)The Directors of the Miami-Dade County Public Works Department and Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning shall provide adequate notice of this section with the official application forms for development permits. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96; Ord. No. 98-125, § 8, 9-3-98) Sec. 13-20. Blasting records.(a)All users of explosives shall keep daily records for a period of three (3) years of all blasting performed on a form or forms prescribed by the Director of the Public Works Department which shall be made available at reasonable times and hours at a location approved by the Director for inspection by him or her or his or her designee and signed copies of such records shall be furnished to the Director within seven (7) days from the date of the actual blast. (b)The minimum data to be shown on such record shall be:(1)Name and location of blasting site.(2)Date and time of firing.(3)Arrangements and spacing of charges.(4)The amount of explosive for each blast or delay series.(5)Delay interval.(6)Name of person in charge of loading and firing.(7)County user permit number, and signature and title of person making report.(c)(1) Records of instrument readings taken as required by Section 13-18 shall be analyzed by an independent recognized seismologist or vibration engineer and shall be reported by him or her to the Director of Public Works with full and complete details within thirty (30) days from the date of the actual blast or upon demand. This seismologist or vibration engineer shall be qualified in blast monitoring and shall have documented prior experience within this field. (2)All original records will be the property of the blasting company with a copy certified by a seismologist or vibration engineer furnished to the Director of Public Works. (d)Unless otherwise authorized by the Director, all instruments used for compliance with this chapter shall meet the following minimum specifications: (1)Seismic frequency range: 2 to 200HZ ( 3HZ)(2)Acoustic frequency range: 2 to 200HZ ( 1db)(3)Velocity range: 0.02 to 4.0 inches/second(4)Sound range: 110 to 140 db linear(5)Transducers: Three mutually perpendicular axis(6)Recording: Provide time history of waveform.(7)Each instrument shall be calibrated annually, preferably on a shake table, and such calibration certified except for instruments which are certified as self-calibrating. (e)A copy of preblast inspection documentation as required by Section 13-15(b) and (c) shall be forwarded, in its entirety, to the Director upon demand. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-21. Waterway blasting operations. When blasting operations involve drill boats or barges operating on or near, navigable waterways, the following shall be required in addition to all applicable federal, state, and local regulations including those set forth in this chapter. (a) Drill boat or barge safety. (1)All onboard magazines shall be permanently secured to the deck as required by the Coast Guard.(2)No explosives shall be stored on the boat or barge deck in the open except for the one (1) case that is to be loaded immediately into the bore holes. Any explosives remaining on deck shall be returned to the day magazine prior to the firing of any blast. (3)The firing line reel or spool shall be mounted on the rig in a manner that it cannot be lost overboard.(4)The amount of explosives allowed aboard the drill boat at any one (1) time will be subject to the approval of the Director, but in no case shall such amount exceed that amount allowed by appropriate codes and regulations. (5)The user shall make necessary arrangements, as may be required by the Director, to prevent damage to any vessel, moored or underway, building or structure, and preserve the crew or occupants thereon from exposure to injury as a result of the users operations. (6)The user shall have a certified marine survey of all floating plant proposed for underwater blasting work performed prior to starting any work, and shall provide the results to the Director. (7)Lightning: The user shall furnish, maintain, and operate lightning-detection equipment during the entire period of blasting operations and/or during the periods that explosives are stored at the site. The equipment shall be installed in a location approved by the Director. A lightning detector shall be operated at all times to detect lightning within a ten (10) mile radius. When the lightning-detection device indicates a blasting hazard potential, the user shall perform the following: a.Shall notify the Director of the potential hazard.b.Shall clear the buoyed blast area of all vessels and personnel.c.Terminate all loading of holes and return unused explosive to the day storage area.d.After sounding the All Clear Signal, shall notify the Director that the potential hazard has passed.e.Resume operations only after all potential of hazard has passed.f.The lightning detector shall be taken off the drill barge with the last evacuation vessel and continuously monitored until danger has passed. g.The user shall monitor the blast area to prevent any boat or vessels from inadvertently entering the blast area during the lightning hazard. (b) Navigation control during drilling, loading, and blasting operations. (1)The user shall buoy the blast area with warning signs. The warning signs shall be legible from a distance of two hundred (200) feet and shall contain the message "DANGER — EXPLOSIVES IN USE." The user may be required by the Director to operate two (2) or more patrol boats during blasting operations whose sole function shall be to monitor and maintain security in the blast area. Patrol boats shall be stationed at the drill barge and remain in the blast area during all blasting operations. Land oriented access control and visual observation locations should be determined and approved by the Director. The user shall inspect and insure that no boat traffic exists within the buoyed blast area prior to the detonation of the blast and until such time as the blaster in charge has sounded the "All Clear Signal." The user shall equip and maintain his or her floating plant with radio equipment capable of communications with the Coast Guard. The user shall inspect the blast area after each blast and immediately notify the Coast Guard and the Director if an all clear or misfire is noted. (2)Coordination with the U.S. Coast Guard: The user shall notify the Coast Guard twenty-four (24) hours prior to a scheduled shot and two (2) hours prior to the actual shot. The waterway must be kept open to vessel traffic at all times except as authorized by the Coast Guard. (3)No blast shall be fired while any vessel under way is closer than one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet to the blast area. Those on board vessels or craft moored or anchored within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet shall be notified before a blast is fired. No blast shall be fired while any swimming or diving operations are in progress in the vicinity of the blast area. If such operations are in progress, signals and arrangements shall be agreed upon to assure that no blast shall be fired while any person is in the water. Blasting flags shall be displayed. (c) Contingency plan in case of misfire, inadvertent initiator extraction, or accidental loss of down lines. (1)All loading of blast holes shall be done early enough each day to allow time, in case of a misfire, inadvertent initiator extraction, or accidental loss of down lines, to implement a contingency plan for removing or detonating the explosives before dark. (2)The user shall submit a contingency plan to the Coast Guard and the Director prior to the commencement of any blasting and shall notify both parties in the event of a misfire, inadvertent initiator extraction, or accidental loss, of down lines. All undetonated explosives due to misfire, inadvertent initiator extraction, or accidental loss of down lines must be detonated. (3)The user shall immediately notify the Coast Guard upon giving the "All Clear Signal" after correcting the misfire, inadvertent initiator extraction, or accidental loss of down lines. (4)When more than one (1) charge is placed under water, a float device shall be attached to an element of each charge in such manner that it will be released by the firing. (d) Bulk product specifications. (1)Bulk blasting agents or explosives delivered to the blast site shall be weighed by a certified weigh master at the transfer location nearest the blast site to determine the actual quantity of explosives delivered each day. (2)Bulk product storage tanks or vessels on barges shall be permanently attached to the barge and electrically grounded. A containment dike shall be erected to contain the maximum rated capacity of the storage vessel and all associated pumps and hoses. (3)All bulk product storage tank or vessel access ports, valves, vents, pumps, hoses, and drains shall be secured to prevent vandalism or theft of the explosive product. (4)A flow metering device capable of measuring the quantity of explosives to within five (5) percent of the actual quantity in pounds shall be utilized for all bulk transfers to or from the bulk storage vessel. (5)The delivery system to load holes on each drill frame shall be designed to load each hole to within five (5) percent of the design quantity required for each drill hole. (6)Each drill frame shall measure the quantity of explosives loaded in all holes with weigh scales or flow metering devices to within five (5) percent of the design quantity for each hole. The total of all loaded holes shall be checked with the total quantity delivered prior to subsequent bulk deliveries. Should the bulk quantity delivered vary from the recorded quantity loaded and detonated all measuring devices and or meters shall be recalibrated to within the specified accuracy. (7)Each hole loaded with emulsions or slurries shall be initiated with two (2) separate downlines, caps, and boosters. At least one (1) booster shall be secured in the hole with a mechanical lock in system or spider to prevent extraction of the booster or priming charge. (8)As a minimum the top elevation of the emulsion or slurry product shall be measured to check for voids and actual quantity loaded. (e) Surface blasting. Doby or surface blasting will not be allowed for the fragmentation of bedrock. Doby blasting is an option for fragmenting boulders or large blast rubble when water depths are at least thirty (30) feet. (f) Water wave propagation. The user is responsible to ensure that water wave propagation resulting from blasting activity will not cause damage to shoreline structures. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-22. Insurance requirements.(a)No County user permit shall be issued without the user having first obtained and filed with the Public Works Department a certificate of insurance with limits of liability no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for bodily injury and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for property damage against any liability arising from any activity or operation incidental to blasting, mining or quarrying operations. Failure to provide current certificates of insurance or to maintain appropriate insurance coverage shall be grounds for revocation of the County user permit. In the event the required insurance is terminated, all blasting operations must cease immediately until full coverage is restored. Blasting insurance shall not be terminated without having obtained another insurance policy that will provide the required insurance without any gap in coverage. (b)The insurance required by this section will be written by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of Florida.(c)Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to provide for thirty (30) days notice by registered mail to the Director, Public Works Department of any material change, cancelation or expiration. No policy will be accepted for a shorter period than six (6) months. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96) Sec. 13-23. Penalty for violation. In addition to the penalty provided by Section 1-5 or any other penalty, any person who violates the provisions hereof or the conditions and limitations imposed in a County license and/or user permit shall be deemed to have violated this chapter, and the County license and/or user permit may be revoked by the Director of the Public Works Department; provided an appeal may be filed pursuant to Section 13-6 or Section 13-7(e) hereof as applicable. (Ord. No. 96-45, § 1, 3-19-96)

,Chapter 14 FIRE PREVENTION [1]



,Chapter 14A FISH AND MARINE LIFE [1]



,Chapter 14B FOOD AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS [1]



,Chapter 15 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT [1]

Sec. 15-1. Definitions.Sec. 15-2. Solid waste collection services, container usage, condition and location.Sec. 15-2.1. Scavenging of recyclable materials prohibited; theft of recycling containers.Sec. 15-2.2. Recycling programs required for multi-family residential establishments.Sec. 15-2.3. Recycling programs required for commercial establishments; joint and several liability.Sec. 15-2.4. Modified recycling programs allowed.Sec. 15-2.5. Applicability.Sec. 15-2.6. Mandatory separation of recyclable materials from solid waste stream.Sec. 15-2.7. Enforcement.Sec. 15-2.8. Severability.Sec. 15-2.9. Relation to state and federal law.Sec. 15-2.9.1. Effective date.Sec. 15-3. Prima facie evidence of accumulation of solid waste.Sec. 15-4. Plans for solid waste storage and collection for commercial and multi-family residential establishments to be approved before issuance of building permit.Sec. 15-5. Duty to dispose of solid waste and prevent accumulations.Sec. 15-5.1. Declaration of legislative intent and determination of applicability.Sec. 15-5.2. Prohibition of commingling of yard trash and other forms of solid waste; joint and several liability.Sec. 15-6. Littering, dumping and unauthorized delivery prohibited; dumping or burying solid waste without proper authorization; unauthorized delivery of solid waste at neighborhood trash and recycling centers; declared public nuisance; presumption.Sec. 15-7. Requirement to secure transported solid waste or recyclable material.Sec. 15-8. Placing dangerous materials in garbage cans, plastic garbage bags, portable containers or recycling containers prohibited.Sec. 15-9. Geographical service areas adjoining County solid waste management facilities.Sec. 15-10. Reserved.Sec. 15-11. Reserved.Sec. 15-12. Emergency powers of the Director.Sec. 15-13. County collection of solid waste.Sec. 15-14. Special collections, fees, extra charges.Sec. 15-15. Private disposal of waste.Sec. 15-16. Responsibility for removal of industrial waste, hazardous waste and noncombustible solid waste, collection and disposal of bulky waste.Sec. 15-17. Permits required by the Department of Solid Waste Management.Sec. 15-17.1. Application for permit.Sec. 15-17.2. Denial of permit.Sec. 15-17.3. Appeal from Departmental denial of permit; appeal from revocation of permit under Section 15-17.14.Sec. 15-17.4. Vehicle registration fees.Sec. 15-17.5. Term of permit.Sec. 15-17.6. Renewal of permit.Sec. 15-17.7. Transfer of permit prohibited.Sec. 15-17.8. Identification of equipment.Sec. 15-17.9. Information required of permittees.Sec. 15-17.10. Reserved.Sec. 15-17.11. Disposal required at County-approved facilities.Sec. 15-17.12. Solid waste disposal charges for private collectors.Sec. 15-17.13. Acceptability of material for disposal.Sec. 15-17.14. Revocation of permit.Sec. 15-17.15. Reserved.Sec. 15-17.16. Holding period for waste tires.Sec. 15-17.17. Maintenance and inspection of records.Sec. 15-17.18. Use of unpermitted waste tire transporter.Sec. 15-18. Resource recovery and management facility permitting.Secs. 15-19—15-22. Reserved.Sec. 15-23. Solid waste fees; joint and several liability.Sec. 15-24. Schedule of solid waste collection and disposal fees, records to be kept.Sec. 15-25. Fees for disposal of solid waste brought to County solid waste management facilities.Sec. 15-25.1. Legislative findings.Sec. 15-25.2. Disposal Facility Fee payable to County.Sec. 15-25.3. Record keeping.Sec. 15-26. Payment of solid waste fees.Sec. 15-27. Reserved.Sec. 15-28. Waste fee shall constitute special assessment liens against all improved real property.Sec. 15-29. Waste fee receipts.Sec. 15-30. Multiple occupancy of premises.Sec. 15-31. Certain exemptions from payment of solid waste fees.Sec. 15-32. Enforcement and penalties for violation of this chapter.Sec. 15-32.1. Team Metro: Delegation of enforcement power and duties.Sec. 15-33. Advance of funds for operating expenses, automotive vehicles of the Department, establishment of a reserve fund.Sec. 15-34. Reserved.Sec. 15-1. Definitions. The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section. (a) Board: The Miami-Dade County Board of County Commissioners. (b) Bulky waste: Less than one (1) cubic yard of construction and demolition debris, large discarded items or large accumulations of trash. Bulky waste shall include, without limitation, appliances, furniture, yard trash, crates, corrugated cardboard, and other similar items. Bulky waste shall not include tires or other solid waste requiring special handling. (c) Bundled yard trash: Clean yard trash which is gathered into bundles and tied securely so that each bundle does not exceed three (3) feet in length or weigh more than fifty (50) pounds. (d) Clean yard trash: Yard trash free of other forms of solid waste. (e) Commercial establishment: Any structure used or constructed for use for business operations. For purposes of this chapter, hotels and motels are commercial establishments. The term "commercial establishment" shall not include any residential unit or multi-family residential establishment. (f) Commingled yard trash: Yard trash mixed with other forms of solid waste. (g) Composting: Controlled biological decomposition of organic materials. (h) Construction and demolition debris: Discarded material generally considered not to be water-soluble or hazardous, including, without limitation, steel, concrete, glass, brick, asphalt roofing material, or lumber from a construction or demolition project. Commingling construction and demolition debris with any amount of other types of solid waste will cause it to be classified as other than construction and demolition debris. (i) Containerized waste: Solid waste (other than solid waste requiring special handling) which is placed in cans, plastic garbage bags or bulk containers, or in bundles, in the case of bundled yard trash. (j) County Solid Waste Management System: The aggregate of those solid waste management facilities owned by or operated under contract with Miami-Dade County. (k) County-wide solid waste service area: The entire geographical area of Miami-Dade County, to which the department provides solid waste management services. (l) Curbside: The area between the sidewalk and the street edge, or, in areas without sidewalks, the area between the edge of the traveled portion of any public or private street and the property line, which area shall not exceed ten (10) feet. (m) Customer: A person who uses the solid waste or recycling collection services of a permitted hauler or the appropriate governmental agency. (n) Delivery: The bringing of solid waste or recyclable material to a solid waste management facility for the purpose of resource recovery, disposal, recycling, processing, transfer, or storage. (o) Department: The Miami-Dade County Department of Solid Waste Management. (p) Director: The Director of the Department of Solid Waste Management or person(s) designated by the Director. (q) Disposal Facility Fee: A fee imposed on private haulers operating in the Disposal Facility Fee Area, that collect, transport, or deliver solid waste for disposal, to cover Solid Waste Management System Costs, which fee does not apply to construction and demolition roll-off service, recycling service or compactor leasing service. (r) Disposal Facility Fee Area: the unincorporated area of Miami-Dade County, as it was geographically configured on February 16, 1996, within which the Disposal Facility Fee is imposed. (s) Dumping: Throwing, discarding, placing, depositing or burying any solid waste in an area or manner not permitted by the Code of Miami-Dade County. (t) Facility: Anything that is built or purchased to make an action or operation easier or to serve a special purpose. (u) Garbage: Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attends the preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or storage of, edibles, and any other matter, of any nature whatsoever, which is subject to decay, putrefaction and the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odors, or which, during or after decay, may serve as breeding or feeding material for flies or other germ-carrying insects. (v) Garbage can: A container made of galvanized metal, durable plastic or other similar material capable of containing garbage, with a capacity of not less than twenty (20) gallons and not more than thirty-two (32) gallons and having the following characteristics: (1) at least two (2) handles upon the sides or a bail by which it may be lifted; (2) sufficient strength for workmen to empty conveniently; (3) a tight-fitting metal or plastic top with handle; (4) construction as to permit the free discharge of its contents; and (5) no inside structures such as inside bands and reinforcing angles or anything within the container to prevent the free discharge of the contents. (w) Hazardous waste: Solid waste which, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may, when improperly transported, disposed of, stored, treated or otherwise managed, cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality, or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness, or may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly transported, disposed of, stored, treated or otherwise managed. (x) Industrial waste: Condemned food products, or solid waste resulting from the following activities or operations of the following facilities: (1) canneries; (2) slaughterhouses or meat packing plants; (3) brick, concrete block, roofing shingle or tile plants; and (4) land clearing, excavating, building, rebuilding and altering of buildings, structures, roads, streets, sidewalks, or parkways. Industrial waste shall also include any solid waste materials which, because of their volume or nature, do not lend themselves to collection and incineration commingled with ordinary garbage and trash, or which, because of their nature or surrounding circumstances should be, for reasons of safety or health, disposed of more often than the County collection service schedule provided for in this chapter. (y) Landscaping business: Any person operating a business in Miami-Dade County that is engaged in the business of creating or maintaining landscaped areas, including tree trimming and tree removal. (z) Litter: Solid waste, in any amount, which is not containerized. (aa) Mixed paper: Paper material free of any solid waste. Mixed paper shall include, without limitation, white ledger, colored ledger, discarded letters and envelopes, computer paper and office paper. For purposes of this chapter, the term "mixed paper" shall not include newspaper and cardboard. Commingling of mixed paper with newspaper, cardboard or solid waste shall cause it to be classified as other than mixed paper. (bb) Modified recycling program: An operation, approved by the Department, which provides for the recycling of recyclable material by a method varying from the requirements of Section 15-2.2 or Section 15-2.3 (cc) Multi-family residential establishment: Any structure other than a residential unit which is used, or constructed for use, as a multiple-dwelling facility. Multi-family residential establishments shall include without limitation, rooming house, tourist court, trailer park, bungalow court, apartment building with rental or cooperative apartments, or multiple story condominiums with common means of ingress and egress. (dd) Neighborhood trash and recycling center: A neighborhood site, maintained by the Department, for use by residents of unincorporated Miami-Dade County, and municipalities served by Miami-Dade County for solid waste collection and landscaping businesses that have a current permit issued in accordance with Section 15-17.1 of this Code, to deposit household-generated bulky waste such as clean yard trash; white goods; construction and demolition debris; and other household items; and, where collection of such items is provided for, recyclable items. Bulky waste shall be presumed to be other than household-generated, and shall be rejected, if delivery to a neighborhood trash and recycling center is attempted by means other than the following: (1) hand; (2) automobile; (3) van; (4) pick-up truck. (ee) Noncombustible solid waste: Solid waste that is not burnable at ordinary incinerator temperature which shall include, without limitation, metals, mineral matter, large quantities of glass or crockery, metal furniture, auto bodies or parts, and other similar material not usual to housekeeping or to operation of commercial establishments. (ff) Ordinary incinerator temperature: Eight hundred (800) degrees to one thousand eight hundred (1,800) degrees Fahrenheit. (gg) Permittee: Any person who obtains a permit from the Department. (hh) Person: Any natural person, individual, public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association, joint venture, municipality, governmental agency, political subdivision, public officer, or any other entity whatsoever, or any combination of such, jointly or severally. (ii) Pick-up truck: A light truck having a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of not more than fifteen thousands (15,000) pounds, manufactured with a fixed open cargo bed, which bed does not exceed the width nor the height of the cab and is no longer than eight (8) feet. (jj) Plastic garbage bag: A polyethylene or other heavy-duty plastic bag which meets the National Sanitation Foundation standard for thickness of one and five-tenths (1.5) mils, has a capacity not to exceed thirty-two (32) gallons, and has a securing mechanism. (kk) Portable container: A dumpster, rollaway or other similar container designed for mechanized collection. (ll) Private solid waste hauler (collector); Private hauler; Hauler: Any person, entity, corporation, or partnership having a current permit issued in accordance with Section 15-17.1 of this Code that removes, collects or transports for hire any solid waste over the streets or public rights-of-way within any unincorporated area of the County. (mm) Recyclable material: Any material which is capable of being recycled and which, if not recycled, would be processed and disposed of as solid waste. The term "recyclable material" shall include green glass, brown glass and clear glass; aluminum and steel cans and scrap metal; plastic containers, mixed paper, newspaper, corrugated cardboard, office paper, and phonebooks. Any recyclable material mixed with solid waste shall be considered to be solid waste. (nn) Recycling container: Receptacle used for recyclable material. (oo) Recycling program: An operation which provides for the separate gathering, storage, collection and marketing of recyclable material. (pp) Recycling services: Business activities related to the buying, selling, trading, marketing, transferring, separating, collecting or processing of recyclable material. Such service shall include the proper handling and disposal of any portion of collected recyclable material deemed unusable or unmarketable. (qq) Residential unit: Any structure which is used, or constructed for use, as a single-family dwelling, duplex, cluster house, or townhouse, and which is located on a single lot, parcel or tract of land. For the purposes of this chapter, any condominium structure composed of privately owned, single-family housing units with separate means of ingress and egress and containing no more than two (2) stories shall be considered a residential unit. The term residential unit shall not include any multi-family residential establishment. (rr) Resource recovery: The process of recovering materials or energy from solid waste, excluding those materials or solid waste under control of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. (ss) Resource recovery and management facility: Any facility the purpose of which is disposal, recycling, incineration, processing, storage, transfer, or treatment of solid or liquid waste; but for the purpose of permitting does not include sewage treatment, industrial waste treatment, or facilities exclusively within state or federal jurisdiction. (tt) Service unit: An area located in any commercial establishment which provides four (4) sleeping rooms or a fraction thereof, where no cooking facilities are provided. (uu) Solid waste: Garbage, trash, litter, yard trash, hazardous waste, construction and demolition debris, industrial waste, or other discarded material, including solid or contained gaseous material resulting from domestic, industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural, or governmental operations. (vv) Solid waste collection service area: That portion or entirety of the county-wide solid waste service area to which the department provides curbside garbage and trash collection service. (ww) Solid waste disposal: Disposition of solid waste by means of combustion, landfilling or other final method of discard. (xx) Solid waste management facility: Any solid waste disposal area, volume reduction plant, transfer station or other facility, the purpose of which is resource recovery or the disposal, recycling, processing, transfer or storage of solid waste. (yy) Solid waste management master plan: A document which shall set forth (a) goal(s), objectives and policies for solid waste management in Miami-Dade County, and shall include a comprehensive evaluation of solid waste management alternatives and recommended actions. (zz) Solid Waste Management System Costs: Costs incurred to provide solid waste management services, including, without limitation, (a) costs for construction, reconstruction, or completion, of any facility, (b) the costs of acquisition or purchase of any facility, (c) the cost of labor, materials, machinery and equipment, (d) the cost of fuel, parts, supplies, maintenance, repairs and utilities, (e) the cost of computer services, data processing and communications, (f) the cost of all lands and interest therein, leases, property rights, easements and franchises of any nature whatsoever, (g) the cost of any indemnity or surety bonds and premiums for insurance, (h) the cost of salaries, workers compensation insurance or other employment benefits, (i) the cost of uniforms, training, travel and per diem, (j) amounts necessary to pay redemption premiums or other costs associated with the early retirement of obligations, (k) the creation of reserve or debt service funds, (l) costs and expenses related to the issuance of obligations, all financing charges and any expenses related to the issuance of obligations, all financing charges and any expenses related to any liquidity facility or credit facility, (m) the cost of construction plans and specifications, surveys and estimates of costs, (n) the cost of engineering, financial, legal and other professional services and, (o) all other costs and expenses properly attributable to providing solid waste management capacity by the County. (aaa) Solid waste requiring special handling: Solid waste materials which, because of their quantity, concentration, composition or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics require transportation or disposal in a manner not typical of other solid waste. (bbb) Tire: A continuous covering for the wheel of a motor vehicle usually made of rubber reinforced with cords of nylon, fiberglass or other material and filled with compressed air. (ccc) Trailer: An accessory vehicle that is towed by the permitted vehicle. Trailer bed shall not be larger than 6 feet high, 6 feet wide by 10 feet long. Any trailer which does not exceed 6 cubic yards carrying capacity shall be charged for disposal at neighborhood trash and recycling centers at the same rate as pickup trucks and vans. (ddd) Trash: Any accumulation of paper, packing material, rags or wooden or paper boxes or containers, sweepings and all other accumulations of a nature other than garbage, which are usual to housekeeping and to the operation of commercial establishments. (eee) Unincorporated Miami-Dade County: Any part of Miami-Dade County not lying within the boundaries of a duly incorporated village, town, or municipality. (fff) Used tire: A tire that is suitable for vehicular use or is suitable for retreading and is intended by the holder thereof to be for vehicular use or retreading. (ggg) Van: A fully enclosed vehicle which is manufactured and marketed by a major automobile manufacturer as a van and which has a gross vehicle weight of not more than 11,000 pounds. (hhh) Vegetative food waste: Discarded edible fruit and vegetable matter which is capable of biological decomposition. (iii) Waste tire: A tire from a motorized vehicle, that is no longer suitable for its originally intended purpose because of wear, damage or defect, or which is no longer intended by the holder thereof for vehicular use. (jjj) Waste tire generator: Any person that is either principally or partially engaged in the selling, trading or otherwise transferring of new, used or waste tires, whether such transactions are for cash, barter or without consideration. (kkk) Waste tire transporter: Any person transporting five (5) or more waste tires for hire. (lll) Yard trash: Vegetative matter resulting from landscaping and land clearing operations. (Ord. No. 59-12, §§ 1.01—1.12, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 72-6, § 1, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 77-56, § 1, 7-19-77; Ord. No. 77-72, § 1, 9-20-77; Ord. No. 79-115, § 1, 12-18-79; Ord. No. 80-143, § 2, 12-16-80; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 83-109, § 3, 11-15-83; Ord. No. 85-8, § 3, 2-5-85; Ord. No. 89-5, § 1, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 90-11, § 1, 2-20-90; Ord. No. 91-95, § 1, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 91-123, § 2, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 92-20, § 2, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 92-28, § 1, 4-21-92; Ord. No. 92-43, § 1, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 92-155, § 1, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 94-198, § 1, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 95-174, § 9(Att. C, § 1), § 10(Att. D), 9-20-95; Ord. No. 99-91, § 1, 7-27-99; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-180, § 1, 7-22-03; Ord. No. 06-172, § 1, 11-28-06) Sec. 15-2. Solid waste collection services, container usage, condition and location. Every commercial and multi-family residential establishment shall utilize the solid waste collection services of either the proper governmental agency able to provide such services or that of a licensed solid waste hauler authorized to perform such services by the Director of the Department. Each residential unit, multi-family residential establishment or commercial establishment located in any area where Miami-Dade County solid waste collection and disposal service is provided shall have a sufficient number of garbage cans, plastic garbage bags or portable containers to accommodate all garbage, bundled yard trash or other trash to be removed by Miami-Dade County or other approved contractors. All solid waste to be removed by Miami-Dade County shall be placed at curbside in front of property in such a manner as not to obstruct pedestrian passage, except that collections will be made from alleyways where there is clear and safe access for passage of heavy equipment. An exception to this rule is a handicapped person, per determination of the Director. It shall be unlawful for any person to set out for collection any waste containers which do not conform to the provisions of this chapter or which contain other defects likely to hamper the collection of or injure the person collecting the contents hereof are illegal. Such containers shall be promptly replaced by the owner or user of the container upon the receipt of written notice of said defect. At no time will the Department service any such illegal containers. Portable containers declared a public nuisance or to be unserviceable with no identifying marks visible to enforcement officers shall be removed at the discretion of the Director. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause, let, allow, permit or suffer the placement of any uncontainerized waste at curbside, right-of-way or street edge at any time except as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 2.03, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 72-6, § 2, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 77-56, § 2, 7-19-77; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 91-95, § 2, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 2, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 99-91, § 2, 7-27-99) Sec. 15-2.1. Scavenging of recyclable materials prohibited; theft of recycling containers.(a)Intent. It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida to facilitate the establishment of recycling programs through protection of recyclable material stored for collection. To this end, this section is hereby created to encourage recycling activities throughout the County. (b)Recyclable materials placed by any person in the prescribed manner in a designated collection area is the property of the generator's authorized collection agent, or, if a local government is administering or operating its own recycling program, of said local government. No person shall be permitted to collect or pick up, or cause to be collected or picked up, any recyclable material which has been placed in the prescribed manner in a designated collection area, without first obtaining the written consent of the generator's authorized collection agent, or, if a local government is administering its own recycling program, of said local government. (c)No person shall be permitted to collect or pick up, or cause to be collected or picked up, any recycling container placed at any property, without first obtaining the written consent of the owner of said recycling container or the owner's agent. (d)Any and each collection in violation of subsections (b) or (c) above with the use of a motorized vehicle shall constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as hereinafter provided. (e)This section shall apply to the incorporated and unincorporated areas, and in the unincorporated areas shall be enforced by Miami-Dade County, and in the incorporated areas shall be enforced by the municipalities, unless the County and municipality agree, in writing, that the County will enforce this section within the municipality. Any municipality may establish and enforce its own ordinance provided such ordinance is equivalent to or more stringent than the provisions of this section. (Ord. No. 90-11, § 2, 2-20-90; Ord. No. 91-123, § 3, 10-15-91) Sec. 15-2.2. Recycling programs required for multi-family residential establishments.(a)No later than nine (9) months from the effective date of Ordinance Number 91-123, every multi-family residential establishment shall provide for a recycling program which shall be serviced by a permitted hauler or the appropriate governmental agency and shall include, at a minimum, the five (5) materials listed in Section 15-2.2 below. Recyclable Materials: Multi-family (1)Newspaper(2)Glass (flint, emerald, amber)(3)Aluminum cans(4)Steel cans(5)Plastics (PETE, NDPE-natural, HDPE colored)(b)The failure of a multi-family residential establishment to provide a recycling program or a modified recycling program pursuant to Section 15-2.4 hereof shall constitute a violation of this section for which the property owner(s) shall be liable, provided, however, that in the case of a condominium or cooperative apartment having a condominium association or cooperative apartment association, said association, rather than individual unit owners, shall be liable for any such violation. (Ord. No. 91-123, § 4, 10-15-91) Sec. 15-2.3. Recycling programs required for commercial establishments; joint and several liability.(a)No later than nine (9) months from the effective date of Ordinance Number 91-123, every commercial establishment shall provide for a recycling program which shall be serviced by a permitted hauler or the appropriate governmental agency and shall include a minimum of three (3) materials of its choice selected from the list provided in Section 15-2.3 below. Recyclable Materials: Commercial Establishments (1)High grade office paper(2)Mixed paper(3)Corrugated cardboard(4)Glass (flint, emerald, amber)(5)Aluminum (cans, scrap)(6)Steel (cans, scrap)(7)Other metals/scrap production materials(8)Plastics (PETE, HDPE-natural, HDPE-colored)(9)Textiles(10)Wood(b)The failure of a commercial establishment to provide a recycling program or a modified recycling program pursuant to Section 15-2.4 hereof shall constitute a violation of this section for which the property owner and the owner(s) and operator(s) of the commercial establishment shall be jointly and severally liable. (Ord. No. 91-123, § 5, 10-15-91) Sec. 15-2.4. Modified recycling programs allowed.(a)Recycling programs which incorporate modifications, substitutions or reductions to the requirements of Sections 15-2.2 and 15-2.3 may be submitted to the Department for approval. Approval, rejection, or approval with conditions of the proposed modified recycling program shall be determined by the Department. The Department shall consider the following factors in evaluating the proposed modified recycling program: (1)Whether the establishment operates a recycling program, and is self-hauling the materials to a recyclable material vendor.(2)Whether the establishment generates a lesser number of recyclable materials than the required minimum.(3)Whether the establishment generates and recycles materials not listed in Section 15-2.2 or Section 15-2.3 hereof, as applicable. (4)Whether the establishment is contracting with a permitted private hauler for collection services, which services provide for a post-collection separation of recyclable material, and which: (i)Generate recyclable materials which comply, in kind and quantity, with the recycling requirements provided for in Section 15-2.2 or Section 15-2.3 hereof, as applicable; and (ii)Utilize a materials separation facility which is permitted in accordance with all applicable federal, State and local laws.(b)Any person seeking approval of a modified recycling program shall submit an application in such form as is prescribed by the Department. All modified recycling programs shall be reviewed on a semiannual basis and applicants shall be required to confirm or revise the information contained in their applications at that time. An application for approval of a modified recycling program shall include, but not be limited to, the following documentation, as appropriate to the specific application: (1)Supporting documentation to evidence self-haul activities, which shall include proof of source-separation activities and copies of receipts from recyclable material purchasers. (2)A waste composition study of the waste generated by the applicant, which shall cover a representative time period of no shorter than one (1) week. (3)A copy of the applicable contract with a post-collection separation facility, specifying materials and volumes recycled which are attributable to the applicant. (Ord. No. 91-123, § 6, 10-15-91) Sec. 15-2.5. Applicability. The provisions of Sections 15-2.2, 15-2.3 and 15-2.4 shall apply to the incorporated and unincorporated areas, and shall be enforced by Miami-Dade County unless the County and the city agree, in writing, that the city shall enforce this ordinance within the municipality or that the city is operating a recycling program that meets the minimum standards. Any municipality may establish and enforce its own ordinance provided such ordinance is equivalent to or more stringent than the provisions of this ordinance. (Ord. No. 91-123, § 7, 10-15-91) Sec. 15-2.6. Mandatory separation of recyclable materials from solid waste stream.(a)All occupants of every multi-family residential establishment and every residential unit are required, in accord with the collection program provided at that location, to separate, from all other solid waste collected or received by Miami-Dade County or any other collector, the following materials: (1)Newspaper;(2)Glass;(3)Aluminum cans;(4)Steel cans;(5)Plastics.(b)All occupants of every commercial establishment are required to separate, from all other solid waste collected or received by Miami-Dade County or any other collector, those three selected materials from the following list that are included in the program established at that location in compliance with Section 15-2.3 (1)High grade office paper;(2)Mixed paper;(3)Corrugated cardboard;(4)Glass;(5)Aluminum;(6)Steel;(7)Other metals/scrap production materials;(8)Plastics;(9)Textiles;(10)Wood.(c)Occupants of multi-family residential establishments and commercial establishments may, as an alternative to the requirements of this section, separate recyclable materials in accordance with the modified recycling program established at their place of business or residence in compliance with Section 15-2.4. Modified recycling programs shall include those providing for: (1)A lesser number of recyclable materials than the required minimum.(2)Substitution of recyclable materials not listed in Section 15-2.6 (3)Post-collection separation of recyclable material for commercial establishments, and for those multi-family residential establishments for which separation of recyclable material on the premises is wholly, physically impractical, provided, however, that those modified recycling programs providing for post-collection separation of recyclable material for either commercial or multi-family residential establishments shall be allowed which have been established in compliance with Section 15-2.4 pursuant to contracts in existence as of July 21, 1992. The county manager shall, within six (6) months of the effective date of this Ordinance Number 92-78, adopt and implement regulations establishing procedures requiring commercial and multi-family residential establishments and residential units to place these materials in specialized receptacles, or to handle them in any other manner which the county manager determines shall facilitate the recycling of such materials. (Ord. No. 92-78, § 1, 7-21-92) Sec. 15-2.7. Enforcement. The provisions of Ordinance Number 92-78 shall be enforced by the county manager pursuant to the final promulgated regulations of this ordinance. Such regulations shall provide that, during the initial twelve-month period of intense education efforts (which shall begin on August 10, 1992, regardless of whether final regulations have been promulgated at that time), Miami-Dade County shall not prosecute individuals who unknowingly fail to separate from all other solid waste the materials required to be separated by this ordinance. The regulations shall provide that during the subsequent six-month period warning tickets shall be issued to all persons who fail to separate the required materials regardless of knowledge or intent. Prior to February 10, 1994, the county manager shall propose for the approval of the board of county commissioners regulations for enforcement of this ordinance to be implemented beginning on February 10, 1994. If such regulations propose an amendment to Chapter 8CC of the Code of Miami-Dade County, a public hearing before the board of county commissioners shall be required prior to implementation. The provisions of Section 15-2.6 shall apply to the incorporated and unincorporated areas, and shall be enforced by Miami-Dade County unless the county and the city agree, in writing; that the city shall enforce this ordinance within the municipality or that the city is operating a recycling program that meets the minimum standards. Any municipality may establish and enforce its own ordinance provided such ordinance is equivalent to or more stringent than the provisions of this ordinance. (Ord. No. 92-78, § 2, 7-21-92) Sec. 15-2.8. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable on its face or as applied, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. No. 92-78, § 3, 7-21-92) Sec. 15-2.9. Relation to state and federal law. All provisions of this ordinance are intended to be consistent with other federal, state and local requirements. To the extent that compliance with any of the requirements is a physical impossibility while concurrently complying with other federal or state requirements, the affected person may request a hearing before the board of county commissioners to demonstrate this. The county manager shall amend these requirements to the extent that such physical impossibility is shown. However, to the extent that requirements specified herein are more stringent than federal or state requirements, the person shall comply with both such requirements. (Ord. No. 92-78, § 4, 7-21-92) Sec. 15-2.9.1. Effective date. This law shall take effect on August 10, 1992. (Ord. No. 92-78, § 5, 7-21-92) Sec. 15-3. Prima facie evidence of accumulation of solid waste. The fact that any residential unit or any commercial or multi-family residential establishment located in any County solid waste collection service area is occupied shall be prima facie evidence that solid waste is being produced or accumulated upon such premises. However, temporary residential vacancy, regardless of duration, shall not authorize a refund or excuse the nonpayment of any solid waste fee. Solid waste fees shall be chargeable on new residential units immediately following the Department of Planning, Development and Regulation's final inspection thereof, or installation of permanent electric utility service, or whenever the first solid waste is picked up from such unit by the County, whichever shall occur first. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 2.04, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 1, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 61-4, § 1, 1-31-61; Ord. No. 77-72, § 2, 9-20-77; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 3, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95) Sec. 15-4. Plans for solid waste storage and collection for commercial and multi-family residential establishments to be approved before issuance of building permit. Before building permits may be issued for construction of commercial or multi-family residential establishments, in areas not served by municipal collection agencies, plans for storage and collection of solid waste must be approved by the Director as to location, accessibility, number or adequacy. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for said premises until plans are approved by the Director for compliance with the terms of this section. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 2.05, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 77-56, § 3, 7-19-77; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 4, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-5. Duty to dispose of solid waste and prevent accumulations.(a) Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager, occupant, lessee, or other person responsible for any lot, parcel or tract of land in any unincorporated area of the County, to deposit, store, keep, or maintain, or let, allow, cause, permit or suffer to be deposited, stored, kept or maintained, solid waste which is not containerized, upon such property, or adjoining right-of-way, easements or alleys except as specifically authorized in this chapter. All solid waste containers shall be placed at curbside or other designated collection area only on scheduled collection days no later than 7:00 a.m. and shall be removed on the day of collection. Yard trash or vegetative food waste which is being maintained for the purpose of composting may be kept uncontainerized on any lot, parcel or tract of land in the unincorporated area of the county, provided that the yard trash or vegetative food waste is not located on any right-of-way, alley or front yard area. (b) Enforcement. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Whenever it is evident that there is a violation of this section, the enforcement officer shall do one (1) or more of the following: (1)Serve a notice of violation, in a form prescribed by the Director and approved by the Board of Miami-Dade County Commissioners, upon the owner, manager, occupant, resident, lessee or other responsible person by personal service, by certified mail or by posting a copy in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation exists. The notice shall specify a reasonable time, not to exceed fourteen (14) days, in which the violation shall be rectified or stopped, commensurate with the circumstances. In the event said notice is not complied with in the specified time, the enforcement officer shall proceed with the issuance of a uniform civil violation notice or direct removal as outlined below. (2)Cause a uniform civil violation notice to be issued, in a form prescribed by the Director and approved by the Board of Miami-Dade County Commissioners, upon the owner, manager, occupant, resident, lessee or other responsible person as prescribed in Section 8CC-3, Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, as may be amended from time to time. This uniform civil violation notice may be issued each day until the violation is rectified. (3)Direct the Department of Solid Waste Management to remove the violation and charge the property owner for a special collection service in accordance with Section 15-14 of this chapter. (c) Prima facie evidence. In any prosecution charging a violation of a provision of this chapter, proof that the solid waste offense described in the complaint occurred on the property, including adjoining right-of-way, identified by the address thereon, together with proof that the owner, manager, occupant, resident, lessee or other responsible person identified in the complaint was notified of the violation as prescribed in this chapter, shall constitute in evidence a rebuttable presumption that such person was responsible for the violation. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 5.01, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 67-65, § 1, 9-6-67; Ord. No. 71-60, § 1, 7-6-71; Ord. No. 72-6, § 3, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 72-26, § 1, 5-16-72; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 2, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 91-95, § 5, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 3, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 99-91, § 3, 7-27-99) Sec. 15-5.1. Declaration of legislative intent and determination of applicability.(a) Intent. It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida, to conserve Class I landfill space and to enhance the County's ability to manage the delivery volume of and disposal of yard trash. To this end, this section is hereby created and shall be known as the "Yard Trash Management Ordinance." (b) Applicability. This ordinance shall apply to the incorporated and unincorporated areas, and in the unincorporated areas shall be enforced by Miami-Dade County, and in the incorporated areas shall be enforced by the municipalities, unless the County and municipality agree, in writing, that the County will enforce this ordinance within the municipality. Any municipality may establish and enforce its own ordinance provided such ordinance is equivalent to or more stringent than the provisions of this ordinance. (Ord. No. 91-95, § 6, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02) Sec. 15-5.2. Prohibition of commingling of yard trash and other forms of solid waste; joint and several liability.(a) Commingling of yard trash and other forms of solid waste prohibited. After December 31, 1991, the following acts shall be a violation of this section: (1)The placement of yard trash at the curbside or other designated garbage collection area, by any person, for collection and disposal as garbage. (2)The placement of commingled yard trash at the curbside or other designated trash collection area, by any person, for collection and disposal. (3)Delivery of commingled yard trash, by any person, to a County neighborhood trash and recycling center.(4)Delivery, by any person, of yard trash commingled with garbage to a solid waste management facility.(5)Failure, of any person, to deliver a surcharged load of commingled yard trash and garbage to a designated solid waste management facility after having been rerouted from another solid waste management facility. (6)Failure, by any person utilizing a neighborhood trash and recycling center for disposal of clean yard trash, to place clean yard trash in designated containers or areas for clean yard trash at neighborhood trash and recycling centers. (7)Delivery, by any person, of yard trash, clean yard trash, or commingled yard trash to a Class I lined landfill for disposal.(b) Joint and several liability. When a violation of this section involves a vehicle which is registered to a permittee, with regard to said violation, the driver of the vehicle shall be jointly and severally liable with the owner(s) and operator(s) of the permittee to whom the vehicle is registered, as applicable. (Ord. No. 91-95, § 7, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-20, § 3, 3-17-92) Sec. 15-6. Littering, dumping and unauthorized delivery prohibited; dumping or burying solid waste without proper authorization; unauthorized delivery of solid waste at neighborhood trash and recycling centers; declared public nuisance; presumption.(a) Intent. It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida, to prevent, in whatever way possible, the abuse of the environment of Miami-Dade County through acts of any persons that are generally classified under the headings of "dumping" and "littering," which acts severely burden the taxpayers of Miami-Dade County and adversely affect the attractiveness, public health, safety and welfare of the community for its residents and visitors. To this end, this section is hereby created and shall be known as the "Dade Clean County Ordinance." (b) Prohibited act(s). The following shall be unlawful: (1)It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, let, allow, permit or suffer the dumping of litter on any public or private highway, road, street, alley, bridge, drain, gutter, lane, sidewalk, vacant lot, or thoroughfare, except in areas lawfully provided therefor. (2)It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, let, allow, permit or suffer the dumping of litter in or on any freshwater lakes, canals, rivers or streams or tidal or coastal waters of Miami-Dade County. (3)It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, let, allow, permit or suffer the dumping of litter on any public or private property not listed in Subsection (1) above, unless prior written consent of the owner has been given, and such disposal has been authorized by permit from all governmental authorities having jurisdiction, and provided that said litter will not cause a public nuisance or be in violation of any other State or local laws, rules or regulations. (4)Causing, maintaining, permitting or allowing the accumulation of any litter on any construction or building site before, during or after completion of said construction or building. It shall be the duty of the owner, or his agent, of the property in question to make adequate provision for the disposing of litter and to have on the construction or building site adequate facilities for the disposing of said litter and solid waste and to make appropriate arrangements for the collection thereof. (5)Disposing of the carcass of any dead animal, domestic or otherwise, by the throwing, discarding, placing or depositing of said carcass in or on any of the locations noted in Subsections (1) through (3) of this section. (6)Delivery, by any person, of garbage at neighborhood trash and recycling centers.(7)Delivery, by any person, of solid waste at any neighborhood trash and recycling center that is not generated from a residential unit located in unincorporated Miami-Dade County or from a residential unit located in a municipality which is served by the Department for solid waste collection. Bulky waste shall be presumed to be other than household-generated if it is delivered by any person that is other than a resident of the unincorporated service area or a resident of a municipality served by the Department for solid waste collection or a landscaping business having a current permit in accordance with Section 15-17.1 of this Code. (8)Obstructing the use of a neighborhood trash and recycling center.(9)Vandalizing a neighborhood trash and recycling center.(10)Delivery by a permitted landscaping business of any materials other than clean yard trash at a neighborhood trash and recycling center. (11)Salvaging or scavenging at any Department of Solid Waste Management facility by any person is a violation of this Chapter, and may be enforced as described in Section 15-32 herein. (12)It shall be unlawful for any permitted landscaping business to cause, let, allow, permit or suffer the delivery of clean yard trash to any neighborhood trash and recycling center or County-owned disposal facility in a vehicle that does not have a permit. (13)It shall be unlawful for any permitted landscaping business to cause, let, allow, permit or suffer the modification of a permitted vehicle to increase the capacity of the vehicle after the vehicle has been permitted. (14)It shall be unlawful for any permitted landscaper business to cause, let, allow, permit or suffer the delivery of clean yard trash with a trailer and a van or pick up truck simultaneously. (c) Declared public nuisance. In addition to, and not in limitation upon, any enforcement action for violation of this section, it is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners to declare the dumping of litter in Miami-Dade County to be a public nuisance, and to subject violators of this section to the provisions of Chapter 19 of the Code of Miami-Dade County calling for removal of such a public nuisance through notice, hearing and a lien enforcement procedure if the County so chooses to remedy the prohibited condition. To that end, the provisions of Chapter 19 of the Code of Miami-Dade County are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this section. Any action taken pursuant to this section utilizing the provisions of Chapter 19 shall be considered cumulative and in addition to penalties and other remedies provided elsewhere in this Code. (d) Applicability of State laws. In addition to, and not in limitation of the provisions of this section, the provisions of Section 403.413, Florida Statutes, also known as the "Florida Litter Law," as amended from time to time, are hereby added to this Code of Ordinances and incorporated by reference herein. The Board of County Commissioners would also respectfully suggest to the judges of those courts trying persons for violations of the "Florida Litter Law" that the provisions of Chapter 948, Florida Statutes, "Probation," be utilized liberally in order to require such persons to expend appropriate amounts to time and effort gathering up litter at places within the County designated by the court. (e) Presumption where motor vehicle is source of litter. In the prosecution charging a violation of Section 15-6(b) of the Code by the dumping of litter in any manner or amount whatsoever in or on any public highway, road, street, alley, thoroughfare or any other public lands or waters, by, through or from a motor vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was the source of the litter so discarded, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of such violation the registered owner of such a vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who committed the violation of the ordinance above-noted. Said presumption may be rebutted by substantial evidence on the part of said owner. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 91-95, § 8, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-20, § 4, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 92-155, § 2, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 99-91, § 4, 7-27-99; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-180, § 2, 7-22-03) Sec. 15-7. Requirement to secure transported solid waste or recyclable material. It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, convey, or cause to be hauled or conveyed, any solid waste or recyclable material upon or along public streets, roads or alleys except when the material transported is adequately secured in such manner as to prevent the material from falling or being blown from the transporting vehicles. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 5.03, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 2, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 9, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-8. Placing dangerous materials in garbage cans, plastic garbage bags, portable containers or recycling containers prohibited. It shall be a violation of this chapter to place or cause to be placed in any garbage can, plastic bag, portable container, or recycling container for collection, any acid, explosive material, inflammable liquids, hazardous, infectious or any other dangerous or highly corrosive material of any kind. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 5.04, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 10, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-9. Geographical service areas adjoining County solid waste management facilities. Whenever the County plans, constructs, purchases, leases, or operates a solid waste management facility, the Board of County Commissioners may by resolution, designate one or more areas to be serviced by such facility. Within three (3) months from the designation of such geographical service area or upon completion of the construction of such facility, or at such time as the County Commission shall designate, it shall be unlawful to dispose of solid waste within such area except by or through the designated solid waste management facility. The Board of County Commissioners may enlarge or contract the said contiguous geographical service area depending upon the volumes of solid waste generated within the area and the capacity of the solid waste management facility. Where the Board of County Commissioners prohibits the disposal of solid waste, within a geographical service area, except through a designated solid waste management facility, the Board may prohibit any person, firm, corporation, municipality or political subdivision from transporting solid waste from the geographical service area to any other portion of the county when, in the board's opinion, such transport will overload the solid waste management facilities became a danger to the public health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the other portion of the County or will in any manner work to detriment of the public health, welfare and safety of the citizens of Miami-Dade County. Nothing herein shall, however, prohibit the voluntary source separation of recyclable solid waste materials by the generators of these waste materials or the collection, transportation or processing of such materials within Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 67-27, § 1, 4-25-67; Ord. No. 79-115, § 2, 12-18-79; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 11, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-155, § 3, 12-15-92) Sec. 15-10. Reserved.Editor's note— Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, adopted Nov. 2, 1982, repealed § 15-10, concerning neighborhood bulky waste transfer stations, as derived from Ord. No. 72-6, § 4, adopted Feb. 1, 1972, and Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, adopted Sept. 15, 1981. Sec. 15-11. Reserved.Sec. 15-12. Emergency powers of the Director. The Director, with the concurrence of the County Manager, shall have the authority to suspend, modify or expand services provided by the Department, as enumerated herein, in such emergency circumstances as national disasters, civil disorders or other circumstances as directed by the County Manager. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81) Sec. 15-13. County collection of solid waste. The Director shall have the power to establish the type of solid waste collection service to be rendered to all areas where County solid waste collection service is provided, and to promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent herewith. The frequency and quantity of solid waste collection service to be rendered shall be established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. The Director, with the concurrence of the County Manager, shall have the authority to expand the limits of those service areas served by the Department. All residential waste collection within said areas shall, at the discretion of the Director, be serviced only by the Department. The Department reserves the right to collect solid waste from any Miami-Dade County governmental facility, regardless of location. The Department shall continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste from any part of the unincorporated municipal service area that is incorporated subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance. The Department shall either continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste from any part of the unincorporated municipal service area that is annexed to existing municipalities subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance, or delegate to the governing body of the existing municipality the authority to collect the residential waste through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution R-1198-95. The Director and his designated representatives are assigned the responsibility for enforcement of solid waste collection procedures enumerated herein. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 2.01, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 72-6, § 5, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 92-43, § 4, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 96-30, § 1, 2-6-96) Sec. 15-14. Special collections, fees, extra charges. Any special collections or waste services not covered by this chapter which are performed by the department shall be performed pursuant to such conditions as may be specified by the Director. The department shall charge and collect fees for such special collections or waste services as approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Whenever a violation of this chapter involving unlawful placement or disposal of materials occurs, and the department undertakes removal and disposal of such materials, the department shall charge and collect fees for such services at the rates established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Refusal or delay in rendering payment for any special collection performed as outlined in this chapter shall constitute the basis for adding such unpaid charges to regular waste fee assessment accruing against the property where such special collections are made, and are hereby imposed as special assessment liens against the real property aforesaid, and until fully paid and discharged, or barred by law, shall remain liens equal in rank and dignity with the lien of County ad valorem taxes and superior in rank and dignity to all other liens, encumbrances, titles and claims in, to or against the real property involved, and when delinquent, shall bear interest and may be enforced and collected pursuant to the provisions of Section 15-28(a) of this chapter when applicable. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.08, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 72-6, § 6, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 75-112, § 1, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 3, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 92-43, § 5, 5-19-92) Sec. 15-15. Private disposal of waste. Any person may be issued a permit by the Health Department to dispose of garbage or solid waste materials accumulated upon his own premises by burial, provided that such method meets all specifications of the Director of the Health Department and evidence is presented of compliance with zoning regulations, but such permit and the disposal thereby authorized shall not relieve the owner or occupant of the premises from payment of regular waste fees. No fee shall be charged for such permit and the same may be renewed each year provided all specifications of the Health Department are observed. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 4.01, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81) Sec. 15-16. Responsibility for removal of industrial waste, hazardous waste and noncombustible solid waste, collection and disposal of bulky waste. Industrial waste, hazardous waste, and noncombustible solid waste shall be disposed of in the manner and at such locations as are consistent with all federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances. Removal of industrial waste, hazardous waste, and noncombustible solid waste shall be the responsibility of the owner, occupant, operator or contractor creating or causing the accumulation of such material. The Department shall not be responsible for collecting or hauling discarded building material, construction and demolition debris, dirt or rock, nor shall it be responsible for collecting or hauling trees, bushes or other vegetation cut on private property before a certificate of occupancy is issued. Bulky waste shall not be permitted at curbside until advance arrangements have been made with the Department for its removal. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 2.02, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 71-46, § 1, 5-18-71; Ord. No. 72-6, § 7, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 72-26, § 2, 5-16-72; Ord. No. 75-112, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 83-97, § 1, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 89-5, § 4, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 90-16, § 11, 3-6-90; Ord. No. 89-89, § 7, 9-19-89; Ord. No. 91-95, § 12, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 6, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 99-91, § 5, 7-27-99) Sec. 15-17. Permits required by the Department of Solid Waste Management.(1)It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, collect or transport for hire or salvage any solid waste or recyclable material over the streets or public right-of-way within any unincorporated area of the County, any unincorporated area that is incorporated subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance, and any unincorporated area that is annexed to an existing municipality subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance, without first applying for and receiving the appropriate solid waste permit from the Department to carry on such a business. (2)It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, collect or transport within Miami-Dade County five (5) or more waste tires for hire without a Waste Tire Transporter Permit from the Department of Solid Waste Management. (3)It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, trade or otherwise transfer new, used, or waste tires within Miami-Dade County without a Waste Tire Generator Permit from the Department of Solid Waste Management. Permits issued by the Department are as follows: (a) General: Applies to any person engaged in the business of solid waste collection, removal, or transport for hire or salvage, or any person engaged in the business of recyclable materials collection, removal or transport for hire or salvage. (b) Landscaping business: Applies to landscaping businesses as a requirement to enable them to use neighborhood trash and recycling centers, and (a) use County-owned solid waste management facility(ies) designated by the Director, for disposal of clean yard trash only. (c) Waste tire generator: Applies to any person that is either principally or partially engaged in the selling, trading or otherwise transferring of new, used or waste tires, whether such transactions are for cash, barter or without consideration. (d) Waste tire transporter: Applies to any person transporting five (5) or more waste tires for hire. Permits required by this section shall be in addition to any other permits, registration or occupational license which may be required by Federal, State or Local law. (4)Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:(a)Commercial or multi-family residential establishments for the sole purpose of hauling the trash or recyclable material of its own tenants or occupants. (b)Persons who use entity owned or leased vehicles to transport tires for the purpose of retreading between entity owned or franchised retail tire outlets and retread facilities owned or franchised by the same entity. (c)The provisions of this section shall not apply to organized events to clean up improperly disposed waste tires or other organized environmental cleanup activities. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 4.02, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 3, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 72-26, § 3, 5-16-72; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 91-95, § 13, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-20, § 5, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 94-198, § 2, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 95-174, § 10(Att. D), 9-20-95; Ord. No. 96-30, § 2, 2-6-96; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-180, § 3, 7-22-03) Sec. 15-17.1. Application for permit. Applications for a permit shall be made to the Department upon such form and in such manner as shall be prescribed by the Director, said form to elicit the following information and to be accompanied by supporting documents and such other information as may be required by the Department from time to time: (a) Name of applicant. If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the name(s) and business address(es) of the principal officers and stockholders and other persons having any financial or controlling interest in the partnership or corporation. Provided, however, that if the corporation is a publicly owned corporation having more than twenty-five (25) shareholders, then only the names and business addresses of the local managing officers shall be required. (b) Character of applicant. The applicant for a permit under this section, if an individual, or in the case of a firm, corporation, partnership, association or organization, any person having any financial, controlling or managerial interest therein, shall be of good moral character. In making such determination the following information, which shall be submitted by applicant, shall be considered: (1) Penal history. If the applicant is an individual, a record of all convictions and the reasons therefor shall be provided by the applicant. If the applicant is other than an individual, then the record of all convictions and the reason therefor of the principal controlling officers of applicant shall be provided. Provided, however, that in the case of a publicly held corporation having twenty-five (25) or more shareholders, then only the aforementioned information applicable to its local managing officers shall be required. (2) Fingerprints. The fingerprints of the persons mentioned in this subsection, a full set of which, for each of such persons shall accompany the application. Such service may be obtained from the Metro-Dade Police Department. (3) Business history. Whether such applicant has operated a solid waste collection-removal business, waste tire transporting business or tire business in this or another state under a franchise, permit or license and if so, where and whether such franchise, permit or license has ever been revoked or suspended and the reasons therefor. (4) Existence of business entity. If applicant is a corporation, applicant shall submit proof of incorporation in good standing in the state of incorporation and, if a foreign corporation, applicant shall provide information certifying that applicant is qualified to do business in the State of Florida. If applicant is other than a corporation and is operating under a fictitious name, applicant shall be required to submit information that such fictitious name is registered and held by applicant. (c) Equipment and method of operation. The applicant for a permit shall possess equipment capable of providing safe and efficient service. In making such a determination and approving the method of operation for each applicant, the Department shall require the following information: (1)The type, number and complete description of all equipment to be used by the applicant for providing service pursuant to this chapter. (2)A statement that the applicant will use County-owned facilities for disposing of all solid waste which the applicant collects and removes, or those facilities not owned by the County which have been approved by the State Department of Environmental Regulation. (3)The names of customers and the addresses of each location served. Permittees applying for permit renewals shall not be required to submit the information specified in Section 15-17.1(c)(3) above, but shall instead be required to submit the information specified in Section 15-17.9 (d)Landscaping businesses applying for permits to use neighborhood trash and recycling centers and/or County-owned solid waste management facility(ies) for disposal of clean yard trash shall be exempt from (c)(3) above, and shall instead supply the information specified in Section 15-17.9(d). (e)Persons applying for a Waste Tire Generator or Waste Tire Transporter permit shall be exempt from (b)(1)—(3) and (c)(1), (2) above and shall instead supply the information specified in Section 15-17.9 (f) Insurance requirements. The applicant for a permit shall maintain insurance as specified herein and shall furnish a public liability policy to the Department and also file with the Department a certificate of insurance for all policies written in the applicant's name. This certificate shall provide that the policies contain an endorsement requiring that the Department shall be furnished with ten (10) days' written notice by registered mail prior to cancellation or material changes in the policies. (1) Comprehensive general liability. The applicant shall carry in his own name a policy covering his operations in an amount not less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence for bodily injury and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per occurrence for property damage liability. Landscaping businesses applying to use (a) neighborhood trash and recycling center(s) and/or County-owned solid waste management facilities for the disposal of clean yard trash shall not, as a condition of the permit to use a neighborhood trash and recycling center(s) and/or County-owned solid waste management facilities be required to maintain comprehensive general liability insurance. Persons applying for a Waste Tire Generator permit or Waste Tire Transporter permit shall not, as a condition of the permit be required to maintain comprehensive general liability insurance. (2) Vehicle liability insurance. Applicants for a General permit shall maintain vehicle liability insurance covering each vehicle utilized in the business of solid waste collection and disposal in an amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single limit per occurrence. All other permittees are required to maintain vehicle liability insurance covering each vehicle in an amount not less than the minimum required by Florida law for the type of vehicle insured. (3) Liability of the County and the Department. The above insurance requirements shall not be construed as imposing upon the County or the Department or any official or employee thereof any liability or responsibility for injury to any person or property by the insured, his agents or employees. (g) Application fee. The department shall charge and collect permit application fees at the rates established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Separate fees shall be established for permits according to the type of permit issued, as follows: (1)General.(2)Small owner-operator landscaping business.(3)Waste Tire Generator.(4)Waste Tire Transporter. The completed application shall be submitted to the Department. Upon receipt of a completed application, the Director or his designated representative shall review said application and, if satisfactory in all respects, and after payment of required fees pursuant to Sections 15-17.4 and 15-17.6 shall issue the required permit. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 5, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 89-73, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 91-123, § 8, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 92-3, § 1, 1-21-92; Ord. No. 92-20, § 6, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 92-43, § 7, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 94-198, § 3, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-180, § 4, 7-22-03) Sec. 15-17.2. Denial of permit. Should the Director deny an application for a permit, he shall notify the applicant of such denial by certified mail not later than fourteen (14) days after taking such action. The notice of denial shall contain a statement of the reasons why the application was denied. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82) Sec. 15-17.3. Appeal from Departmental denial of permit; appeal from revocation of permit under Section 15-17.14. The denial or revocation of a permit by the Department may be appealed to the County Manager or his designee. The notice of appeal shall be filed in writing with the Director no later than fourteen (14) days after the receipt of the certified letter advising applicant of the denial or revocation. The Department shall fix the date and time for hearing the appeal. Said hearing shall be held not less than fourteen (14) nor more than sixty (60) days after receipt of the notice of appeal. The County Manager or his designee shall either affirm the decision of the Department or direct the Department to issue or reinstate the permit. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82) Sec. 15-17.4. Vehicle registration fees. The department shall charge and collect from each permittee, in addition to the initial application fee, an annual vehicle registration fee at the rate(s) established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of Miami-Dade County Commissioners. The amount of such fee shall apply to each vehicle shown on the list required to be submitted as part of the application. This fee shall apply to renewal of permits as well. Failure by any permittee to pay this registration fee shall be considered a violation of this Chapter and may be enforced as described in Section 15-32 herein. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 6, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 91-123, § 9, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 8, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 99-91, § 6, 7-27-99) Sec. 15-17.5. Term of permit. Each and every permit awarded pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 15 of the Code of Miami-Dade County shall be in existence for a period of one (1) year from the date of issuance. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82) Sec. 15-17.6. Renewal of permit. A permit may be renewed from year to year by the Department. Any such renewal shall be subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to the issuance of the original permit. The Department shall charge and collect renewal permit fees at the rates established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 7, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 91-123, § 10, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 9, 5-19-92) Sec. 15-17.7. Transfer of permit prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to assign or transfer any permit issued under the provisions of this Chapter. In the event of any change in ownership and/or name of the corporation or partnership, formal notification shall be given the Department within thirty (30) days thereof. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 99-91, § 7, 7-27-99) Sec. 15-17.8. Identification of equipment. All equipment delivering waste to a Miami-Dade County solid waste management facility must be identified in the manner described in this section: All permit decals for any vehicle permitted under this Chapter shall be permanently affixed to the passenger side windshield of the vehicle. Failure to permanently affix said decal shall be unlawful and may be enforced as prescribed in Section 15-32 of this Chapter. All markings must be in letters and numerals at least two (2) inches in height. (a)General hauler permittees: Equipment must be conspicuously and permanently marked-on both sides of the automotive unit with the name of the hauler, Miami-Dade County permit number, vehicle number, tare weight and cubic yard capacity. Identical information must also be marked on all trailer and container units. (b)Landscaping businesses having a valid permit issued by the Department to dispose at other than neighborhood trash and recycling centers: Equipment must be conspicuously and permanently marked-on both sides of the automotive unit with the name of the company and vehicle number. (c)Landscaping businesses having a valid permit issued by the Department to dispose at the neighborhood trash and recycling centers: Equipment must be conspicuously and permanently marked-on both sides of the automotive unit with the name of the company. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 92-20, § 7, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 99-91, § 8, 7-27-99; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-180, § 5, 7-22-03) Sec. 15-17.9. Information required of permittees. On an annual renewal basis, each permittee shall supply the following information on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Director: (a)A listing, which is organized as prescribed by the Director, as of the reporting date, of the names and addresses of customers, and the addresses of each location served. For each customer on the list, the private hauler will indicate the following: (1) whether the customer served is (i) a multi-family residential establishment, (ii) commercial establishment, (iii) subject to the Disposal Facility Fee pursuant to Section 15-25.2 of this Chapter; and (2) whether the service provided is solid waste collection, recycling, or a combination of both; and, if the service is recycling, (3) a listing of those materials being recycled at each customer location; and (4) the name of a customer contact person who can provide additional information regarding the recycling program. (b)A summary of the number of tons of solid waste collected quarterly based on scheduled service, as of the reporting date.(c)A summary of the number of tons of recyclable material collected and marketed quarterly, on a schedule and format prescribed by the Department. (d)businesses that receive permits to use neighborhood trash and recycling centers and/or a County-owned solid waste management facility(ies) for disposal of clean yard trash shall be exempt from (a) and (b) above and shall instead supply the following information in a manner prescribed by the Director: (1)Miami-Dade County Occupational license as proof of a business location in Miami-Dade County.(e)Waste tire generators shall supply the following information in lieu of the information required by sections (a), (b), (c) and (d) herein, on a form and in a manner prescribed by the director: (1)An accounting of the number of new, used and recapped tires received from suppliers.(2)The number of new, used and recapped tires transferred to others.(3)The number of waste tires removed from the premises, and corresponding removal dates.(4)The name and permit number of the waste tire transporter(s) employed to remove waste tires.(f)Waste tire transporter shall supply the following information in lieu of the information required by sections (a), (b), (c) and (d) herein, on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Director; (1)An accounting of the number of waste tires collected from each waste tire generator and corresponding collection date(s).(2)The name and permit number of the waste tire generator from which waste tires were collected.(3)Copies of the scalehouse receipts for waste tires delivered to a waste tire processing facility(ies). Receipts must show the volume in cubic yards or weight in tons of waste tires delivered, the delivery date and location in or out of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 91-123, § 11, 10-15-91; Ord. No. 92-3, § 2, 1-21-92; Ord. No. 92-20, § 8, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 94-198, § 4, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-180, § 6, 7-22-03; Ord. No. 06-172, § 2, 11-28-06) Sec. 15-17.10. Reserved.Editor's note— Ord. No. 92-3, § 3, adopted Jan. 21, 1992, repealed former § 15-17.10, relative to changes in rates, which derived from Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, enacted Sept. 15, 1981 and Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, adopted Nov. 2, 1982. Sec. 15-17.11. Disposal required at County-approved facilities. Any and all solid waste material collected by a permittee within the County shall be disposed of only at the solid waste disposal facilities provided, operated and designated or approved by the Department of Solid Waste Management and at no other location or facility except those which have heretofore been approved by the Department of Environmental Regulation. All permittees shall comply with the provisions of Section 15-9 of the Code of Miami-Dade County and implementing resolutions of the Board of County Commissioners. The County shall use the reports required in this chapter and other information available to determine compliance of permit holders and, if necessary, the allocation of available capacity at the various County solid waste management facilities. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 8, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 91-95, § 14, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-17.12. Solid waste disposal charges for private collectors. Permitted private collectors operating within the County, who are required to dispose of solid waste material at County disposal sites, shall be charged as provided in this chapter. The Board of County Commissioners shall establish by resolution a credit policy under which the Director shall extend fee charging privileges to haulers of solid waste that use solid waste management facilities. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 9, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 91-95, § 15, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-17.13. Acceptability of material for disposal. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the County reserves the right to refuse to accept at a solid waste management facility any solid waste which has been designated by federal, State or County law, statute, ordinance, rule or regulation as a hazardous waste or as a solid waste material requiring special handling or disposal. The County also reserves the right to refuse to accept any solid waste material which, in the judgment of the Director, would prove injurious to County personnel or equipment. (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 10, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 91-95, § 16, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-17.14. Revocation of permit.(a)The following shall constitute cause for revocation of a solid waste permit by the Director: (1) the violation of any of the provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County which violation endangers the public health, safety or welfare; or (2) the violation of any of terms or conditions of the permit; or (3) the failure to promptly pay the fees or charges provided for in this chapter. (b)The Director may revoke a permit for a violation or violations as aforementioned and may immediately declare such permit null and void, and upon such declaration, the permittee shall immediately cease all operations and shall be considered to have forfeited said permit and the rights acquired thereunder. Upon a determination by the Director that a permit shall be revoked, the affected person shall be provided with written notice of such revocation and the reasons therefor. Upon receipt of such notice, the affected person may appeal said revocation to the County Manager or his designee and the appeal and hearing thereon shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 15-17.3 (Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 86-9, § 1, 2-4-86; Ord. No. 91-95, § 17, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-17.15. Reserved.Editor's note— Ord. No. 91-95, § 18, adopted Sept. 16, 1991, repealed former § 15-17.15, relative to the punishment for violation of §§ 15-17 through 15-17.14, which derived from Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, adopted Sept. 15, 1981; and Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, adopted Nov. 2, 1982. Sec. 15-17.16. Holding period for waste tires. It shall be unlawful for any person to store waste tires or used tires at any location for a period in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive days. All tires stored outside must be covered so as to prevent accumulation of water. This provision does not apply to waste or used tires stored in an enclosed structure or which are mounted and inflated. (Ord. No. 94-198, § 5, 11-1-94) Sec. 15-17.17. Maintenance and inspection of records. Each waste tire generator and waste tire transporter shall maintain records as required by this section. Copies of all records that are required to be submitted under this section and all supporting documentation, including invoices or receipts, shall be subject to inspection by the Director of Solid Waste Management or his designee at any time and shall be retained for a period of one (1) year. (Ord. No. 94-198, § 6, 11-1-94) Sec. 15-17.18. Use of unpermitted waste tire transporter. It shall be unlawful for any person to use, employ or hire a waste tire transporter who fails to have and display the waste tire transporter permit required under this section. (Ord. No. 94-198, § 7, 11-1-94) Sec. 15-18. Resource recovery and management facility permitting. All resource recovery and management facilities in Miami-Dade County shall be required to obtain an operating permit, pursuant to Section 24-35.1 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (a)The director of the Department of Solid Waste Management or his designee shall review all resource recovery and management operation permit applications, and shall make a recommendation to the director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management regarding such application, subject to conditions. The Department of Solid Waste Management shall charge and collect a fee for resource recovery and management facility operating permit application review. This charge shall be established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. In reviewing the application, the director of the Department of Solid Waste Management or his designee shall consider the following: (1)Whether operation of the facility as proposed will have an adverse impact on the county's ability to meet its financial obligations for existing county solid waste management facilities. (2)Whether operation of the facility as proposed will have an adverse impact on the County's ability to meet operating requirements for any solid waste management facility operated under contract with the County. (3)Whether operation of the facility as proposed will have an adverse impact on the County's ability to comply with all State and Federal regulations governing solid waste management activities. The director of the department shall, concurrently with the effective date of this ordinance, implement regulations establishing procedures for evaluating the impacts set forth above. (b)The permittee shall charge and collect (a) fee(s) for specified county-wide solid waste management programs at the rate(s) established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Funds collected shall be submitted to the Department of Solid Waste Management by the 15th day of the month following the month in which collection of the fee(s) occurred. (Ord. No. 92-155, § 4, 12-15-92) Secs. 15-19—15-22. Reserved.Sec. 15-23. Solid waste fees; joint and several liability. In any area in which solid waste collection services are provided by the Department, it shall be the responsibility of the owner(s) of any lot, tract or parcel of land upon which a residential unit, commercial establishment or multi-family residential establishment is located, to pay or cause to be paid the solid waste fee(s) due for each such unit or establishment, as applicable, as provided for in Section 15-24 hereof. The failure of the owner(s) to pay such fee(s) shall constitute a violation of this chapter, for which, in the case of multiple owners, there shall be joint and several liability. In the case of multi-family residential establishments which are condominiums or cooperative apartments, the condominium or cooperative association, rather than the individual unit owners, shall be jointly and severally liable pursuant to this paragraph. Solid waste collection may be discontinued from premises for which the solid waste fee(s) has/have not been paid, and the owners or occupants thereof may be subject to the provisions of Section 15-5 hereof. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.01, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 4, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 19, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-24. Schedule of solid waste collection and disposal fees, records to be kept. Effective October 1, 1981, in any area in which solid waste collection services are provided by the Department, it shall be the responsibility of each person who is the owner of a lot, tract or parcel of land upon which a residential unit or multi-family residential establishment is located, to pay for residential solid waste collection services, on the tax bill, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 197 of the Florida Statutes, as amended. (a)Residential units. The department shall charge and collect fees for solid waste services at the rates established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. In the event any single family residential unit is found to in fact have been illegally converted into multi-family residential units, the Department of Solid Waste Management of Miami-Dade County, upon notification and to the extent permitted by state law, will assess additional fees for the additional services provided by the Department on said property. This fee will be billed in accordance with the fee schedule for single family residential units approved by the Board of County Commissioners and will be assessed as to each of the additional units discovered for up to three (3) preceding years. (b)Commercial or multi-family residential establishments. The department shall charge and collect fees based on the type, quantity and frequency of service, as approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (c)Residential and multi-family residential units receiving Miami-Dade County recycling services that are not receiving garbage and trash collection from the County shall pay for weekly curbside recycling service according to the fee schedule established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. The Department shall maintain complete and accurate records of the costs and expenditures for providing waste collection services, and shall provide the County Manager and the County Commission with periodic statements and reports showing such costs and expenditures. The County Commission shall make periodic adjustment of the fees, assessments and charges for waste collection and disposal services in accordance with the cost analysis of providing such services. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.07, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 5, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 67-25, § 2, 4-7-67; Ord. No. 67-81, § 1, 10-17-67; Ord. No. 69-82, § 1, 11-26-69; Ord. No. 72-6, § 8, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 75-112, § 3, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-44, § 1, 6-1-82; Ord. No. 82-89, § 1, 9-17-82; Ord. No. 83-97, § 1, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 89-5, § 11, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 89-89, § 7, 9-19-89; Ord. No. 90-16, § 2, 3-6-90; Ord. No. 90-100, § 7, 9-19-90; Ord. No. 91-95, § 20, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 10, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 99-34, § 1, 4-13-99) Sec. 15-25. Fees for disposal of solid waste brought to County solid waste management facilities.(a) Fees at solid waste management facilities. The department shall charge and collect fees for the disposal and transfer of solid waste brought to County solid waste management facilities at the rates established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (b) Waste material weight estimation. The Director shall promulgate a schedule of estimated waste material weights to be used in determining fees during emergency periods, such as, but not limited to post-hurricane period, other post-natural disaster periods of weighing equipment malfunctions, when actual weights cannot be obtained. Such estimated weights shall be based on studies of actual waste material weights and shall be uniform for all vehicles of the same type and capacity. (c) Fee supplements. A fee supplement may be added to the established disposal fee when the Director determines that a particular solid waste is solid waste requiring special handling in order to assure the safe and proper disposal of a particular solid waste. This fee supplement shall be based on the additional cost of the required special handling which shall include, but not be limited to, labor, materials, and equipment. The department shall charge and collect fee supplements at the rates established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (d) Filing of schedules of estimated waste material weights. The Director shall file with the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners and make available upon request to all others copies of the schedules required to be promulgated by subsections 15-25(b). (e) Appeals from fixing of fees. Any party aggrieved by the action of the Director, or his designated representative, in the fixing of a fee based on an estimated weight or fee supplement for special handling may appeal the action after paying the fee under protest. Such an appeal must be made in writing to the County Manager within fifteen (15) days after the date of the decision complained of, on a form prescribed by Miami-Dade County. The decision being appealed must be set forth concisely, along with the reasons or grounds for the appeal. The County Manager shall, within ten (10) days after receiving the written notice of appeal, appoint a three-member committee made up of Departmental personnel other than the Department of Solid Waste Management which, after considering the appeal, may affirm, reverse or modify the decision appealed from, provided that the committee shall not take any action which conflicts with or nullifies any of the provisions of this section. The decision of the committee may be appealed to the Board of County Commissioners by filing within ten (10) days after the date of the decision complained of, on a form prescribed by Miami-Dade County, a written notice of appeal with the County Manager, with a copy to the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, which sets forth concisely the decision appealed from and the reasons and grounds for the appeal. Reasonable notice of all hearings shall be provided by the clerk to all affected parties. The Board of County Commissioners may affirm, modify or reverse the decision appealed from. The decision of the Board of County Commissioners shall be final, and no petition for rehearing or reconsideration shall be considered. (f) Exemptions. Any charitable organization, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, which reconditions used household goods or business discards, shall pay one-half of the uniform disposal fee for the disposal of solid or bulky waste; provided, however, that this partial exemption shall not apply to the payment of transfer station fees, nor shall it prohibit the Director or his designee from assessing a fee supplement for the disposal of solid waste requiring special handling. Any person owning or leasing property which is used predominantly for agricultural purposes may apply for an exemption from fees for the disposal of solid waste which was dumped illegally on the subject property. The property owner or lessee must deliver the illegally dumped material to the solid waste disposal and resource recovery facility designated by the Department. The application form and procedure for such exemption shall be determined by the Department and shall include an affidavit by the owner or lessee attesting to the accuracy of all information contained in the application. A property will not be eligible for more than one (1) exemption unless the property owner or lessee has fenced, bermed, or taken other measures to prevent illegal dumping. (g)Disposal fee for permitted landscaping businesses at the neighborhood trash and recycling center(s) and/or County-owned solid waste management facilities shall be established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.09, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 6, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 67-30, § 1, 4-25-67; Ord. No. 69-82, § 2, 11-26-69; Ord. No. 70-43, § 1, 5-27-70; Ord. No. 70-71, § 1, 9-15-70; Ord. No. 73-76, § 1, 9-18-73; Ord. No. 75-17, § 1, 3-4-75; Ord. No. 75-112, § 4, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 79-74, §§ 2, 3, 9-18-79; Ord. No. 80-3, § 1, 1-22-80; Ord. No. 80-143, § 3, 12-16-80; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-36, § 1, 5-4-82; Ord. No. 82-89, § 1, 9-17-82; Ord. No. 82-1905, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 85-62, § 1, 9-3-85; Ord. No. 89-5, § 12, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 90-17, § 1, 3-6-90; Ord. No. 91-95, § 21, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 11, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 95-174, § 10(Att. D), 9-20-95; Ord. No. 02-166, § 24, 9-19-02; Ord. No. 03-180, § 7, 7-22-03) Sec. 15-25.1. Legislative findings. The Board hereby finds and declares that the County has the legal responsibility to provide for solid waste disposal facilities at a level-of-service that satisfies the concurrency requirements of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act. The Board further finds and declares that Miami-Dade County has the legal responsibility and authority to provide, or cause to be provided, safe and sanitary solid waste collection, transportation, and disposal services within Miami-Dade County in accordance with Article VIII, Section 6(1)(e), of the 1968 Florida Constitution and Article 1, Section 1.01(9) and (21), Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter. Moreover, Section 1.01(9) of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter specifically provides the Board of County Commissioners with the power to "provide and regulate......waste and sewage collection and disposal and water supply and conservation programs. This Board further finds and declares that collection, transportation, and disposal of solid waste from residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and other establishments and improved properties in the Disposal Facility Fee Area is a matter of serious concern to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Miami-Dade County. The Board further finds and declares that collection, transportation, and disposal of solid waste generated in the Disposal Facility Fee Area are essential public services. The Board further finds and declares that imposition of a Disposal Facility Fee on private haulers operating in the Disposal Facility Fee Area is the best and most practical means to meet its legal responsibilities to make available County solid waste disposal capacity, the revenues from which shall be used to pay County solid waste management system costs. (Ord. No. 95-174, § 9(Att. C, § 2), 12-5-95; Ord. No. 96-30, § 3, 2-6-96; Ord. No. 06-172, § 3, 11-28-06) Sec. 15-25.2. Disposal Facility Fee payable to County. It shall be unlawful for any private hauler operating in the Disposal Facility Fee Area to either collect, transport, or deliver solid waste for disposal without payment of a Disposal Facility Fee to the County as prescribed herein. By the twenty-fifth day of each month, all private haulers operating in the Disposal Facility Fee Area shall file a Disposal Facility Fee report with the Director and pay all Disposal Facility Fees owed to the County for the preceding month. The Disposal Facility Fee report shall be filed on forms provided by the County and shall include the private hauler's monthly receipts for solid waste collection and disposal service for all accounts subject to the Disposal Facility Fee for the preceding month, which report shall be subject to audit by the County. The report shall also include a calculation on Disposal Facility Fees owed to the County for the previous month in an amount equal to fifteen (15) percent of the total monthly receipts for solid waste collection and disposal service, which monthly receipts shall not include Disposal Facility Fees assessed by the private hauler to the customer. An additional monthly surcharge, equal to one (1) percent of the Disposal Facility Fee amount for the preceding month shall be payable to the County if the fifteen (15) percent Disposal Facility Fee is not paid or the Disposal Facility Fee report is not filed by the twenty-fifth of the month by the private hauler. Two and one half (2.5) percent of the monthly Disposal Facility Fee amount payable to the County may be retained by each private hauler to help defray administrative costs associated with this fee, including accounting and auditing costs. (Ord. No. 95-174, § 9(Att. C, § 3), 12-5-95; Ord. No. 96-30, § 4, 2-6-96; Ord. No. 96-143, § 7, 9-18-96; Ord. No. 97-156, § 7, 9-17-97; Ord. No. 98-143, § 7, 9-18-98; Ord. No. 06-172, § 4, 11-28-06) Sec. 15-25.3. Record keeping. All private haulers are hereby required to establish and maintain appropriate records, showing in such detail as the Director may prescribe, the amount of monthly solid waste collection and disposal service fee receipts for each account provided solid waste collection and disposal service which is located in the Disposal Facility Fee Area. All such records shall be open to inspection by the Director or his duly authorized agent at all reasonable times. The Director is hereby authorized and empowered to promulgate from time to time such rules and regulations with respect to the establishment and maintenance of such records as he may deem necessary to carry into effect the purpose and intent of the provisions hereof. (Ord. No. 95-174, § 9(Att. C, § 3), 12-5-95; Ord. No. 96-30, § 5, 2-6-96; Ord. No. 06-172, § 5, 11-28-06) Sec. 15-26. Payment of solid waste fees. Residential solid waste fees shall be payable in advance on or before their due date. Fees for residential units shall be payable annually. Fees for commercial or multi-family residential establishments shall be payable annually for minimum-service collection accounts and shall be payable monthly for uncompacted rollaway container accounts, and shall be payable within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice for special collections and uncontainerized solid waste. In the event that payment of said solid waste fees is by check made payable to the Department and said check is returned by the bank due to insufficient funds or any other reason not the fault of the bank or the Department, the Department shall charge and collect an administrative fee at a rate established by separate administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by the Board of County Commissioners, to be added to the solid waste fees due to cover administrative costs incurred by Department. In addition, late charges and interest on past-due accounts shall be charged as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.04, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 22, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-43, § 12, 5-19-92) Sec. 15-27. Reserved.Editor's note— Sec. 15-27, derived from Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.05, regulating application of payments in event of delinquency, was repealed by Ord. No. 62-33, § 3, enacted July 31 and effective August 10, 1962. The section has been reserved by the editors. Sec. 15-28. Waste fee shall constitute special assessment liens against all improved real property.(a)Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, all owners of improved real property in the solid waste collection service area and in municipalities served by the County are required to have accumulations of garbage, bulky waste, and solid waste removed by the Department, and for such governmental service of garbage, bulky waste and solid waste collection, or the availability of such service, all such improved real property shall be liable for the payment of the waste fees set forth in Section 15-24. All waste fees becoming due and payable on and after July 1, 1962 shall constitute, and are hereby imposed as, special assessment liens against the real property aforesaid, and until fully paid and discharged, or barred by law, shall remain liens equal in rank and dignity with the lien of County ad valorem taxes and superior in rank and dignity to all other liens, encumbrances, titles and claims in, to or against the real property involved. Unless otherwise provided herein, such waste fees shall become delinquent if not fully paid within sixty (60) days after the due date. All delinquent waste fees billed and collected by the Department shall bear a penalty of eighteen (18) percent, and if not fully paid with all accrued penalty assessments by the due date of the next succeeding waste fee payment, an additional eighteen (18) percent penalty shall be added successively for each period until fully paid. Unpaid and delinquent waste fees, together with all penalties imposed thereon, shall remain and constitute special assessment liens against the real property involved for the period of five (5) years from the due date thereof. Provided, however, that any tax certificates which include delinquent waste fees shall remain valid pursuant to the provisions of Section 197.241 of the Florida Statutes, as amended. Such special assessment liens for waste fees and penalties may be enforced by any of the methods provided in Chapter 86, Florida Statutes, or in the alternative, foreclosure proceedings may be instituted and prosecuted under the provisions of Chapter 173, Florida Statutes, or the collection and enforcement of payment thereof may be accompanied by any other method authorized by law. Provided that special assessments imposed under the provisions of this chapter on residential units shall be deemed due, become delinquent, receive discounts, bear interest and be collected in the same manner and subject to the same provisions of law as are ad valorem taxes. (b)[Reserved.](c)The Department is authorized and directed to execute and deliver upon request written certificates certifying the amount of waste fees due upon any parcel of real property subject to payment of waste fees, or certifying that no waste fees are due, which certificates shall be binding upon the County. The Department shall make rules and regulations prescribing procedures governing the administration of the provisions of this chapter and providing procedures for the payment of waste liens in periodic installments and the cancellation of waste liens, which rules and regulations when approved by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners and filed in accordance with the requirements of this Code shall have the force and effect of law. (d)[Reserved.] (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.06, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 7, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 62-33, § 1, 7-31-62; Ord. No. 62-51, § 1, 12-4-62; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-44, § 1, 6-1-82; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 92-155, § 5, 12-15-92) Editor's note— Subsections (b) and (d) have been deleted as obsolete.Sec. 15-29. Waste fee receipts. Receipts evidencing the payment of waste fees, in such form as may be approved by the Director, shall be retained by the occupant of the premises covered thereby, and shall be exhibited upon demand of any employees of said department. Failure to exhibit such receipt upon demand shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Waste fee receipts issued for one property may not be transferred to another. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.02, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 28, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 62-33, § 4, 7-31-62; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81) Sec. 15-30. Multiple occupancy of premises.(a)A commercial or multi-family establishment located in the same building or on the same property with a residential unit or with another commercial or multi-family establishment, even though under the same ownership and having one (1) collection point, shall be billed as a commercial or multi-family commercial account. (b)A commercial or multi-family establishment and a residential unit under the same ownership located in one (1) building or buildings on the same parcel or property in which the owner has a separate collection point for residential, multi-family residential or commercial solid waste shall have the option of consolidating all solid waste at one (1) collection point (in which case, the billing shall be handled as a commercial or multi-family commercial account), or shall continue to have separate collection points (in which case, the solid waste service for the residential portion shall be billed as a residential account and the multi-family residential or commercial solid waste service shall be billed as a separate commercial or multi-family commercial account). Garbage cans, plastic garbage bags and portable containers must be separated on multiple occupancy properties and placed in separate locations. Garbage cans, plastic garbage bags and portable containers must be marked for separate identification. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.03, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 60-22, § 9, 7-26-60; Ord. No. 72-6, § 9, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 72-26, § 4, 5-16-72; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 23, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-31. Certain exemptions from payment of solid waste fees.(a)Recipients of State or County welfare funds, when certified as such by the State welfare department or the County Director of public welfare, who would otherwise be liable for the payment of solid waste fees, may be excused from the payment of such fees for the period during which such welfare funds continue to be received. (b)Commercial or multi-family residential establishments actually employing and using the services of a private solid waste collector who holds a valid permit provided for in Section 15-17 herein for collection of solid waste shall not be liable for the payment of solid waste fees otherwise required to be paid hereunder so long as such employment and use continues. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 3.10, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 72-6, § 10, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 91-95, § 24, 9-16-91) Sec. 15-32. Enforcement and penalties for violation of this chapter.(a)Violations of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the same manner as misdemeanors are prosecuted. Any person found guilty of a violation of any provisions of this chapter shall pay a fine in accordance with the minimum fine schedule indicated in paragraph (d) of this section or be subject to imprisonment in the County Jail not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the appropriate court of competent jurisdiction. At the discretion of the Director, violations of this chapter may be prosecuted pursuant to Chapter 8CC of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (b)Appointment of Special Enforcement Officers, qualifications of Special Enforcement Officers, powers and duties.(1)The County Manager is hereby authorized to designate and appoint as Special Enforcement Officers, certain County employee(s), normally trained and assigned to inspection functions for the purpose of enforcing this chapter and the rules and regulations pertaining thereto. (2)Special Enforcement Officers shall have the following qualifications:a.Satisfactory completion of a course of at least forty (40) hours' duration pertaining to the duties of enforcement officers, which course shall be jointly given by the Directors of the Metro-Dade Police Department and other relevant departments. b.Approval and certification by the Director of the Metro-Dade Police Department as persons of good moral character and standing in the community suited by temperament and learning to be enforcement officers of the County. (3)Special Enforcement Officers shall while on duty:a.Cause uniform civil violation notices to be issued, issue notices of violation and perform such other acts pursuant to Section 15-5(a) for enforcement of this chapter. b.Perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or by administrative orders and regulations of the County Manager. (4)Special Enforcement Officers shall be identified either by special uniform or badge or both. Special Enforcement Officers shall not carry firearms. (c)Obstructing Special Enforcement Officer in the performance of duties:(1)Whoever opposes, obstructs or resists the enforcement officer or other person authorized by the enforcement officer in the discharge of his duty as provided in this Section, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree and shall be subject to punishment as provided by law. (2)Special Enforcement Officers shall notify the Metro-Dade Police Department immediately when in their judgment an arrest or forcible restraint becomes the appropriate response to a situation. (d)In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, or in Chapter 8CC of the Code of Miami-Dade County, the Director shall have the following judicial remedies available for violations of this chapter or any other lawful rule or regulation promulgated hereunder: (1)To institute a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to establish liability and to recover damages for any costs incurred by the County in conjunction with the abatement of any condition prohibited by the provisions of this chapter. (2)To institute a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to impose and recover a civil penalty for each violation. However, the court may receive evidence in mitigation. Each day during any portion of which such violation occurs constitutes a separate offense. (3)To institute a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek injunctive relief to enforce compliance with the terms of this chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, to enjoin and prohibit said violation or to mandatorily compel the cessation of the violation. (4)These remedies are cumulative and the use of any appropriate remedy shall not constitute an election of remedies by the Department. The use of one (1) remedy shall not preclude the use of any others. (Ord. No. 59-12, § 5.05, 6-9-59; Ord. No. 72-6, § 11, 2-1-72; Ord. No. 77-56, § 6, 7-19-77; Ord. No. 79-67, § 1, 7-17-79; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-81; Ord. No. 82-105, § 1, 11-2-82; Ord. No. 89-5, § 13, 1-17-89; Ord. No. 90-11, § 3, 2-20-90; Ord. No. 91-95, § 25, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 92-20, § 9, 3-17-92; Ord. No. 92-43, § 13, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 92-155, § 6, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 96-86, § 2, 6-4-96) Sec. 15-32.1. Team Metro: Delegation of enforcement power and duties. Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, the Director of Solid Waste Management Department shall delegate his enforcement powers and duties to the Director of Team Metro for the expressed purpose of enforcing the regulations of this chapter as specified in Section 2-969 or in an administrative order of the County Manager. (Ord. No. 96-86, § 4, 6-4-96) Sec. 15-33. Advance of funds for operating expenses, automotive vehicles of the Department, establishment of a reserve fund.(a)Upon the recommendation of the County Manager, and subject to appropriate budget transfer approved by the County Commission, funds for payment of operating expenses of the Department may be advanced, allocated and transferred from the general contingency fund on a temporary basis, provided adequate provision is made for the reimbursement of such advances within the budget year in which such funds are advanced, and provided further that the aggregate amount of such funds advanced shall not at any time exceed sixty (60) percent of the accounts receivable of the Department. (b)Funds for the purchase of trucks, truck bodies and other automotive vehicles and equipment for use by the Department may be budgeted in the general fund automotive equipment account, provided adequate provisions are made for reimbursement of such advances in the current budget of the Department, and provided further that no such advances shall be made except upon approval of the County Manager. (c)Funds may be allocated in a reserve fund entitled "reserve for maintenance and purchase of new equipment that is in excess of expenditures utilized by the Department for revenue collection in a given fiscal year." This specific fund shall be established to provide for the unanticipated increases in the maintenance and purchase of mobile equipment. (Ord. No. 60-40, § 1, 11-22-60; Ord. No. 81-108, § 1, 9-15-80; Ord. No. 89-5, § 14, 1-17-89) Cross reference— Duty of Public Works Department to collect, remove, dispose of waste, adopt and enforce rates, etc., § 2-100(f). Sec. 15-34. Reserved.Editor's note— Ord. No. 01-91, § 1, adopted May 8, 2001, repealed section 15-34 in its entirety. Former section 15-34 pertained to the establishment of a solid waste management citizens task force and derived from Ord. No. 92-28, § 2, adopted April 21, 1992; and Ord. No. 93-74, § 1, adopted July 15, 1993.

,Chapter 16 GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS [1]

Sec. 16-1. Public hearings required before specific capital projects may be authorized or commenced.Sec. 16-2. Public hearing required annually to establish priorities among capital projects.Sec. 16-3. Public hearings.Sec. 16-1. Public hearings required before specific capital projects may be authorized or commenced. Whenever the issuance of bonds secured by the County's ad valorem taxing power has been authorized by the voters of the County in a referendum election, and the bonds are authorized for a generally stated purpose or objective or for a number of projects that will accomplish such purpose rather than for a specifically designated capital project, then before any specific capital project may be authorized or commenced the Board of County Commissioners shall hold one (1) or more public hearings in one (1) or several geographical areas of the County in order to provide the residents of the County with an opportunity to appear, and to criticize or comment upon the specific capital project proposed. (Ord. No. 72-80, § 1, 11-7-72) Sec. 16-2. Public hearing required annually to establish priorities among capital projects. Whenever bonds are described in the preceding section are authorized but unissued, the Board of County Commissioners will meet at least once annually to conduct a public hearing in order to provide the residents of the County with an opportunity to appear and state their individual views on the establishment of relative priorities among the various capital projects of a specific nature that are being considered or could be considered for implementation by the Board of County Commissioners under such general obligation bond issues. (Ord. No. 72-80, § 1, 11-7-72) Sec. 16-3. Public hearings. Whenever bonds as described in the preceding sections are authorized but remain uncommitted to specific projects, no action shall be taken by the Board of County Commissioners with regard to the authorization or commencement of specific capital projects or with regard to modifying capital project priorities except after public hearings at which citizens may express their viewpoints and opinions and after such studies as may be deemed necessary resulting from the views expressed in such public hearing. (Ord. No. 72-80, § 1, 11-7-72)

,Chapter 16A HISTORIC PRESERVATION [1]

Sec. 16A-1. Short title.Sec. 16A-2. Declaration of legislative intent.Sec. 16A-3. Scope of regulations.Sec. 16A-3.1. Municipal Historic Preservation.Sec. 16A-3.2. Authority of the Director to Appear as a Party.Sec. 16A-4. Definitions.Sec. 16A-5. Historic Preservation Board—Created and established.Sec. 16A-6. Same—Members.Sec. 16A-7. Same—Organization.Sec. 16A-8. Same—Rules and regulations.Sec. 16A-9. Same—Powers and duties.Sec. 16A-10. Designation process and procedure.Sec. 16A-11. Application for certificate of appropriateness.Sec. 16A-12. Economic Hardship.Sec. 16A-13. Maintenance of designated properties.Sec. 16A-13.1. Demolition By Neglect Prohibited.Sec. 16A-14. Certificates to dig.Sec. 16A-15. Appeals.Sec. 16A-16. Penalties.Sec. 16A-17. Incentives.Sec. 16A-18. Tax exemptions for renovations for historic properties.Sec. 16A-19. Classification and assessment of historic property used for commercial or certain nonprofit purposes.Sec. 16A-20. Settlement Authority.Sec. 16A-1. Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Ordinance." (Ord. No. 81-13, § 1, 2-17-81) Sec. 16A-2. Declaration of legislative intent. It is hereby declared as a matter of public policy that the protection, enhancement and perpetuation of properties of historical, cultural, archeological, paleontological, aesthetic and architectural merit are in the interests of the health, prosperity and welfare of the people of Miami-Dade County. Therefore, this chapter is intended to: (1)Effect and accomplish the protection, enhancement and perpetuation of buildings, structures, improvements, landscape features, paleontological and archeological resources of sites and districts which represent distinctive elements of the County's cultural, social, economic, political, scientific, religious, prehistoric and architectural history; (2)Safeguard the County's historical, cultural, archeological, paleontological and architectural heritage, as embodied and reflected in such individual sites, districts and archeological zones; (3)Foster civic pride in the accomplishments of the past;(4)Protect and enhance the County's attraction to visitors and the support and stimulus to the economy thereby provided; and(5)Promote the use of individual sites and districts for the education, pleasure and welfare of the people of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 2, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 03-38, § 1, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-3. Scope of regulations.(1)This chapter is intended to and shall govern incorporated and unincorporated Miami-Dade County.(2)The regulatory jurisdiction of the Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board pursuant to this Chapter shall extend to:(a)all property located in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County;(b)all property located in incorporated areas of Miami-Dade County except where the municipality has enacted its own historic preservation ordinance in accordance with section 16A-3.1 (c)archeology and paleontology zones and sites in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County except where the municipality has enacted its own historic preservation ordinance in accordance with section 16A-3.1 and the municipality, within 365 days of the effective date of this ordinance, enacts an ordinance that (1) expressly retains jurisdiction over archeology and paleontology zones and sites, (2) adopts regulations as least as protective of archeology and paleontology zones and sites as those in this Chapter, and (3) commits the municipality to retain sufficient archeological personnel or consultants to enforce such regulations; and (d)the enforcement of the minimum standards established by this Chapter as set forth in this Chapter.(3)Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to supersede or conflict with applicable building and zoning codes. Provisions contained herein shall be cumulative and read in conjunction with other provisions of the Miami-Dade County Code. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 3, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 03-38, § 2, 3-11-03) Annotation—CAO 82-23.Sec. 16A-3.1. Municipal Historic Preservation.(1) County Technical and Legal Support for Municipal Preservation. The Director of the Office of Historic Preservation and the County Attorney's Office may provide a requesting municipality with technical and legal assistance in preservation matters. Such assistance is not intended to replace the municipality's own commitment of resources to preservation or to divert resources from the County's own preservation responsibilities. (2) Timeframes for Municipalities to Enact Historic Preservation Ordinances. (a)Municipalities incorporated prior to July 1, 1982 were given the option to adopt their own municipal historic preservation ordinances or be governed by the County ordinance. The following municipalities enacted their own ordinances: Coral Gables, Hialeah, Homestead, Miami, Miami Beach, Miami Shores, Miami Springs, Opa-locka, and South Miami. (b)Municipalities incorporated after July 1, 1982 but before the effective date of this ordinance have until one year after the effective date of this ordinance to adopt their own preservation ordinances. (c)Municipalities incorporated after the effective date of this ordinance have until one year after the effective date of their incorporation to adopt their own preservation ordinances. (3) Status of Designated Properties After Transition of Jurisdiction. In the event that a municipality assumes jurisdiction of historic preservation from Miami-Dade County by enacting an ordinance as provided in this section, all properties previously designated by the Miami-Dade Historic Preservation Board shall have the status and protections of properties designated under the municipality's historic preservation ordinance unless and until such designation is removed by formal action of the municipality pursuant to its ordinance. The same rule shall apply if the County assumes jurisdiction from a municipality. (4) Minimum Standards for Municipal Ordinances. (a)To comply with the minimum standards for historic preservation ordinances a municipal ordinance shall contain provisions:(1)that establish a historic preservation board which shall be empowered to designate individual sites or districts and to issue certificates of appropriateness; or to advise the city commission regarding such matters. In this regard, this ordinance shall constitute authority for a municipality to delegate to its preservation board the power to designate sites and districts and issue certificates of appropriateness. (2)that provide procedures for the municipality, its staff, the Director of the Miami-Dade County Office of Historic Preservation, and private parties to recommend the initiation of designations of historic districts and individual historic sites, whether residential, commercial, industrial or other, pursuant to due notice to affected parties, legally-enforceable standards, quasi-judicial hearings, and appeals to court; (3)that protect designated sites or districts by preventing the issuance of building, construction, zoning, and demolition permits or the significant change of appearance of such sites or districts until a written certificate of appropriateness has been issued; (4)that protect property owners by procedures (1) to de-designate properties and (2) to vary or modify historic regulation based upon economic hardship pursuant to due notice to affected parties, legally-enforceable standards, quasi-judicial public hearings, and appeals to courts; (5)that provide economic incentives for preservation;(6)that regulate and prevent the demolition of historic buildings by neglect, and(7)that establish the Secretary of Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation as standards governing preservation, although a municipality may establish additional standards. (b)It is a violation of the minimum standards of this Chapter for a municipal historic preservation ordinance(1)to exempt an otherwise historic property from historic regulation or designation on the basis that the owner did not consent to the regulation or designation; (2)to allow the issuance of a permit for the demolition of a historically-regulated property unless, after a public hearing pursuant to the ordinance, a variance based upon economic hardship has been granted or a certificate of appropriateness to demolish based on express standards in the ordinance has been issued. In this regard, it is a violation of the minimum standards of this Chapter to permit the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness for demolition based solely upon the passage of a certain amount of time after the owner has applied to demolish. (c)Municipalities that have already enacted historic preservation ordinances as of the effective date of this ordinance shall have 365 days from the effective date of this ordinance to bring their ordinances into compliance with these minimum standards. (d)The minimum standards created in these sub-section shall not apply to any municipality that is recognized as a Certified Local Government by the Florida Secretary of State. (5) Guidelines for Municipal Enforcement. Municipalities are encouraged to comply with the following guidelines, but these guidelines shall not serve as minimum standards: (a)have a quorum appointed to its historic preservation board at least 9 months in any 12 month period;(b)conduct public meetings of its historic preservation board no less than 6 times in every calendar year;(c)provide sufficient professional staff to its historic preservation board to allow the board to conduct its business, including evaluating properties and districts for designation, reviewing and issuing certificates of appropriateness, holding quasi-judicial hearings, and otherwise enforcing the terms of its historic preservation ordinance; (d)conduct a separate public hearing to consider for designation each property within its jurisdiction listed on the National Register of Historic Places; and (e)produce at least one designation report per calendar year until all properties in its jurisdiction listed as historically significant on the City or the County's last survey have been considered. (6) Municipality Shall File Annual Report. Municipalities that exercise jurisdiction of historic preservation shall annually file a report with the Clerk of the Board of the Miami-Dade County Commission. This report shall briefly state the name, address and qualification of its historic preservation board members; when each member joined and, if applicable left the board; the name, address and telephone number of its historic preservation staff members and consultants; and the number of designation reports and certificates of appropriateness prepared and considered in that year. Attached to the report shall be a copy of the minutes of the meetings of the municipality's historic preservation board for that year and any designation reports and certificates of appropriateness prepared by its staff during that year. (7) Municipal Authority To Obtain Continuances Before Unsafe Structure Agencies. A municipality that has enacted its own historic preservation ordinance in accordance with this section may obtain continuances before unsafe structure agencies as set forth in section 16A-11 (VI) (b) of this Chapter. For this limited purpose, "Director," "staff," and "Board" as used in that section shall refer to their counterparts in the municipality. The authority provided by this sub-section shall be interpreted only to expand, and not to limit, the discretion of a municipality. (Ord. No. 03-38, § 3, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-3.2. Authority of the Director to Appear as a Party. In his official capacity, the Director of the Miami-Dade County Office of Historic Preservation shall have the legal authority to initiate or appear as a party in any administrative, legal proceeding, or appeal involving or arising out of a municipality's determination to designate an individual site or district, to grant or deny a certificate of appropriateness, to grant or deny a request to de-designate or grant a variance to a historic property, or to consider other similar matters involving individual sites or districts. In all such matters, the Director shall be represented by the County Attorney. (Ord. No. 03-38, § 4, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-4. Definitions.(1) Archeological or paleontological zone: An area designated by this chapter which is likely to yield information on the paleontology, history and prehistory of Miami-Dade County based on prehistoric settlement patterns in Miami-Dade County as determined by the results of the Miami-Dade County historic survey. These zones will tend to conform to natural physiographic features which were the focal points for prehistoric and historic activities and paleontology. (2) Certificate of appropriateness: A certificate issued by the Board permitting certain alterations or improvements to a designated individual site or property in a designated district. (a) Regular certificate of appropriateness: A regular certificate of appropriateness shall be issued by the staff of the Preservation Board, based on the guidelines for preservation approved by the Board. (b) Special certificate of appropriateness. For all applications for a special certificate of appropriateness involving the demolition, removal, reconstruction or new construction at an individual site or in a district, a special certificate of appropriateness is required that is issued directly by the Board. (3) Certificate to dig: A certificate that gives the Board's permission for certain digging projects that may involve the discovery of as yet unknown or known archeological or paleontological sites in an archeological or paleontological zone. This certificate is issued by staff of the Board based on the guidelines for preservation approved by the Board. (4) Certificate of recognition: A certificate issued by the Board recognizing properties designated pursuant to this chapter. (5) Demolition: The complete constructive removal of a building on any site. (6) Districts: A collection of archeological or paleontological sites, buildings, structures, landscape features or other improvements that are concentrated in the same area and have been designated as a district pursuant to this chapter. (7) Exterior: All outside surfaces of a building or structure. (8) Guidelines for preservation: Criteria established by the Preservation Board to be used by staff in determining the validity of applications for a regular certificate of appropriateness and any certificate to dig and to establish a set of guidelines for the preservation of buildings in south Florida. (9) Historic Preservation Board: A board of citizens created by this chapter as described in Sections 16A-5 through 16A-9 (10) Historic survey: A comprehensive survey compiled by the Historic Preservation Division of the Miami-Dade County Office of Community and Economic Development involving the identification, research and documentation of buildings, sites and structures of any historical, cultural, archeological, paleontological or architectural importance in Miami-Dade County, Florida. (11) Individual site: An archeological site, a paleontological site, building, structure, place or other improvement that has been designated as an individual site pursuant to this chapter. Under the provisions of this chapter interior spaces may be regulated only where a building or structure is a designated individual site and where its interiors are specifically designated. (12) National Register of Historic Places: A federal listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior of buildings, sites, structures and districts that have attained a quality of significance as determined by the Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended. (13) Ordinary repairs or maintenance: Work done to prevent deterioration of a building or structure or decay of or damage to a building or structure or any part thereof by restoring the building or structure as nearly as practicable to its condition prior to such deterioration, decay or damage. (14) Owner of a designated property: As reflected on the current Metropolitan Miami-Dade County tax rolls or current title holder. (15) Undue economic hardship: Failure to issue a certificate would place an onerous and excessive financial burden upon the owner that would amount to the taking of the owner's property without just compensation. (16) Landscape feature: Any improvement or vegetation including, but not limited to outbuildings, walls, courtyards, fences, shrubbery, trees, sidewalks, planters, plantings, gates, street furniture and exterior lighting. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 4, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 03-38, § 5, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-5. Historic Preservation Board—Created and established. There is hereby created an Historic Preservation Board, ("the Board"), as a governmental agency of the County government in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida. The Board is hereby vested with the power, authority and jurisdiction to designate, regulate and administer historical, cultural, archeological, paleontological and architectural resources in Miami-Dade County, Florida, as prescribed by this chapter under the direct jurisdiction and legislative control of the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 5, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 03-38, § 6, 3-11-03) Cross reference— Standards for creation and review of boards, commissions, etc., §§ 2-11.36—2-11.40. Sec. 16A-6. Same—Members. The Board shall consist of thirteen (13) members appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners should attempt to appoint architects, realtors, archeologists, historians, art historians, lawyers or other individuals from the business, financial and other segments of the community who, by virtue of their profession or business, have demonstrated concern for historic preservation. The Historic Preservation Board shall contain not less than one architect; one real estate agent or attorney at law; and one historian or architectural historian. The term of office of membership shall be four (4) years for each member. Any vacancy occurring on the Board shall be filled by the County Commission for the remainder of the unexpired term, at the earliest possible date. Members shall be eligible for reappointment. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties, as shall be determined and approved by the County Commission. Members of the Board shall be governed by Section 2-11.36, et seq. of the Code. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 6, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 03-38, § 7, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-7. Same—Organization. The members of the Board shall annually elect a Chair who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and such other officers as may be deemed necessary or desirable. The County Manager shall provide adequate professional staff for the Board, including but not limited to representatives from the departments of community and economic development, building and zoning, and planning Office of Historic Preservation which shall be deemed the staff of the Board. The Office of Historic Preservation shall have a professional Director. The Historic Preservation Board shall be consulted regarding the selection of the Director. The Chair or his or her designee shall serve on any board reviewing candidates for the position of Director. Minutes of each Board meeting shall be kept and prepared under the supervision and direction of the Board, and copies of such minutes shall be filed with the Clerk of the County Commission. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 7, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 03-38, § 8, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-8. Same—Rules and regulations. The Board shall make and prescribe such rules and regulations reasonably necessary and appropriate for the proper administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and shall not conflict with the Constitution and General Laws of the State of Florida, and shall govern and control procedures, hearings and actions of the Board. No such rules and regulations shall become effective until a public hearing has been held upon the proposed rules and regulations, and any amendments or modifications thereto, and the same have been approved by the County Commission and filed with the Clerk of the Commission. Upon approval by the Commission, such rules and regulations shall have the force and effect of law within Miami-Dade County, Florida. The Board shall prescribe forms for use by applicants in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The Board may authorize any one (1) of its members to administer oaths and certify to official acts. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 8, 2-17-81) Sec. 16A-9. Same—Powers and duties. The Historic Preservation Board shall have the following enumerated powers and duties: (1)Adopt or amend rules of procedure.(2)Designate individual sites, districts and archeological and paleontological zones.(3)Issue or deny certificates of appropriateness and certificates to dig.(4)Approve historical markers and issue certificates of recognition for individual sites and designated properties in a district.(5)Recommend zoning and building code amendments to the proper authorities.(6)Establish guidelines for preservation and criteria for issuance by staff of regular certificates of appropriateness.(7)Promote the awareness of historic preservation and its community benefits.(8)No actions of this Board will supersede or be construed as superseding the authority of the Board of County Commissioners.(9)Review and update the historic survey for its quality and professional merit, and validate the findings of the survey as bona fide and sincere. (10)Implement the authority of this chapter and fulfill the tasks set forth for this Board by the County Commissioners in this chapter and other ordinances. (11)Record and maintain records of the Board's actions and decisions.(12)Follow and abide by the laws of the United States of America, the State of Florida and Miami-Dade County.(13)Provide an annual report to the Board of County Commissioners.(14)Review and make recommendations to the Office of Historic Preservation regarding any grant proposals reviewed by the Office of Historic Preservation, including but not limited to Community Development Block Grants. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 9, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 03-38, § 9, 3-11-03) Annotation—CAO 84-8.Sec. 16A-10. Designation process and procedure.(I)[Criteria.] The Board shall have the authority to designate areas, places, buildings, structures, landscape features, archeological and paleontological sites and other improvements or physical features, as individual sites, districts or archeological or paleontological zones that are significant in Miami-Dade County's history, architecture, paleontology, archeology or culture and possess an integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship or association, or: (a)Are associated with distinctive elements of the cultural, social, political, economic, scientific, religious, prehistoric, paleontological and architectural history that have contributed to the pattern of history in the community, Miami-Dade County, south Florida, the State or the nation; or (b)Are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or(c)Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, style or method of construction or work of a master; or that possess high artistic value; or that represent a distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or (d)Have yielded, or are likely to yield information in history or prehistory; or(e)Are listed in the National Register of Historic Places.(II)[Properties not generally considered; exceptions.] Certain properties, which include cemeteries, birthplaces, properties owned by religious institutions or used for religious purposes, structures that have been moved from their original locations, properties commemorative in nature and properties that have achieved significance within the last fifty (50) years, will not normally be considered for designation. However, such properties will qualify if they are integral parts of districts that do meet the criteria, or if they fall within the following categories: (a)A religious property deriving primary significance from architectural or artistic distinction of historical importance.(b)A building or structure removed from its location but which is primarily significant for architectural value, or is the surviving structure most importantly associated with an historic event or person. (c)A birthplace or grave of an historical figure of outstanding importance if there is no other appropriate site or building directly associated with his/her productive life. (d)A cemetery which derives its primary significance from graves of persons of transcendent importance, from age, distinctive design features, or from association with historic events. (e)A property primarily commemorative in intent if design, age, tradition or symbolic value has invested it with its own historical significance. (f)A property or district achieving significance within the past fifty (50) years if it is of exceptional importance.(III)[Investigation and designation report.] Prior to the designation of an individual site, a district, or an archeological zone, an investigation and designation report must be filed with the Board. The format of these reports may vary according to the type of designation; however, all reports must address the following: The historical, cultural, architectural or archeological significance of the property or properties being recommended for designation; a recommendation of boundaries for districts and archaeological zones and identification of boundaries of individual sites being designated; a recommendation of standards to be adopted by the Board in carrying out its regulatory function under this chapter with respect to certificates of appropriateness and certificates to dig. Where a report is filed recommending designation of a district, the report must identify those properties, if any, within the district which are not historically or architecturally compatible with structures in the district. The standards for regulating such nonconforming properties shall provide that a certificate of appropriateness may be required only for new construction on such properties. All reports shall take into consideration projected, proposed or existing public improvements and developmental or renewal plans. (IV) Procedure. (a) Petition of the owner. The owner(s) of any property in unincorporated Miami-Dade County may petition this Board for designation of their property as an individual site, district or archeological zone provided that they appear before the Board with sufficient information to warrant the investigation of the property for future designation and the Board finds that the property may be worthy of designation. The Board shall, based on its findings, either direct the staff to begin the designation process or deny the petition. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to restrict the power of the Board to initiate the designation process pursuant to this section. (b) Directive of the Board. The Board shall, upon recommendations from staff or the acceptance of petitions pursuant to part (IV), subsection (a) of this section, direct staff to begin the designation process by preparing a designation report, pursuant to part (III) of this section and any other standards the Board may deem necessary, and submitting this report according to the procedures described herein. (c) Notification of owner. For each proposed designation of an individual site, district or archeological zone, the Board is encouraged to obtain the permission of the property owner(s) within the designated area, and is responsible for mailing a copy of the designation report to the owner(s) as notification of the intent of the Board to consider designation of the property at least fifteen (15) days prior to a public hearing held pursuant to this section. (d) Notification of government agencies. Upon filing of a designation report, the Secretary of the Board shall immediately notify the appropriate building and zoning department, the appropriate public works department and any other County or municipal agency, including agencies with demolition powers, that may be affected by said filing. (e) Notification of a public hearing. For each individual site, district or archeological zone proposed for designation, a public hearing must be held no sooner than fifteen (15) days and within sixty (60) days from the date a designation report has been filed with the Board. Owners of record or other parties having an interest in the proposed designated properties, if known, shall be notified of the public hearing by certified mail to the last known address of the party being served; however, failure to receive such notice shall not invalidate the same as such notice shall also be perfected by publishing a copy thereof in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Owners shall be given an opportunity at the public hearing to object to the proposed designation. (f) Requirement of prompt decision and notification. Within seven (7) days of a public hearing on a proposed individual site, district or archeological zone, the Board shall by written resolution state its decision to approve, deny or amend the proposed designation and shall direct the Secretary of the Board to notify the following of its actions with a copy of the resolution: (1)The appropriate building and zoning department,(2)The County Clerk,(3)The appropriate municipal clerk when necessary,(4)Owner(s) of the affected property and other parties having an interest in the property, if known,(5)The appropriate planning department,(6)The appropriate public works department, and(7)Any other County or municipal agency, including agencies with demolition powers, that may be affected by this action,(8)Miami-Dade County Property Appraiser.(g)[Amendment or rescission.] The Board may amend or rescind any designation provided it complies with the same manners and procedures used in the original designation. (h) Moratorium. Upon the filing of a designation report by the staff, the owner(s) of the real property which is the subject matter of the designation report or any individual or private or public entity shall not: (1)Erect any structure on the subject property.(2)Alter, restore, renovate, move or demolish any structure on the subject property until such time as final administrative action, as provided by this chapter, is completed. (i) Recording of designation. The Board shall provide the Clerk of the Circuit Court with all designations for the purpose of recording such designation and the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall thereupon record the designation according to law. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 10, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 88-28, § 2, 4-19-88; Ord. No. 03-38, § 10, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-11. Application for certificate of appropriateness.(I)[Certificate required as prerequisite to alteration, etc.] No building, structure, improvement, landscape feature or archeological site within Miami-Dade County which is designated pursuant to Section 16A-10 shall be erected, altered, restored, renovated, excavated, moved or demolished until an application for a certificate of appropriateness regarding any architectural features, landscape features or site improvements has been submitted to and approved pursuant to the procedures in this section. Architectural features shall include, but not be limited to, the architectural style, scale, massing, siting, general design, the color of exterior paint surfaces, and general arrangement of the exterior of the building or structure, including the type, style and color of roofs, windows, doors and appurtenances. Architectural features shall include, when applicable, interior spaces where interior designation has been given pursuant to Section 16A-10. Landscape features and site improvements shall include but are not limited to, site regrading, subsurface alterations, fill deposition, paving, landscaping, walls, fences, courtyards, signs and exterior lighting. No certificate of appropriateness shall be approved unless the architectural plans for said construction, alteration, excavation, restoration, renovation, relocation or demolition are approved by the Board. (II)[Board to develop procedures.] The Board shall develop procedures for making application for both a regular and special certificate of appropriateness. (III)[Standards for issuance.] The Board shall adopt and may from time to time amend the standards by which applications for any certificate of appropriateness are to be measured and evaluated. In adopting these guidelines, it is the intent of the Board to promote maintenance, restoration, adaptive reuses appropriate to the property, and compatible contemporary designs which are harmonious with the exterior architectural and landscape features of neighboring buildings, sites and streetscapes. These guidelines shall also serve as criteria for staff to make decisions regarding applications for regular certificates of appropriateness. (IV) Regular certificates of appropriateness. Based on the guidelines for preservation, the designation report, a complete application for regular certificate of appropriateness, any additional plans, drawings or photographs to fully describe the proposed alteration and any other guidelines the Board may deem necessary, the staff of the Board shall, within ten (10) days from the date a complete application has been filed, approve or deny the application for a regular certificate of appropriateness by the owner(s) of a designated individual site, or property within a designated district. The findings of the staff shall be mailed to the applicant within three (3) days of staff decision accompanied by a statement in full regarding the staff's decision. The applicant shall have an opportunity to challenge the staff decision by applying for a special certificate of appropriateness within thirty (30) days of the staff's findings. (V) Special certificates of appropriateness. (a)An applicant for a special certificate of appropriateness shall submit his application to the Board pursuant to Section 16A-10 and accompany such application to the Board with full plans and specifications, site plan and samples of materials as deemed appropriate by the Board to fully describe the proposed appearance, color, texture or materials, and architectural design of the building and any outbuilding, wall, courtyard, fence, landscape feature, paving, signage and exterior lighting. The applicant shall provide adequate information to enable the Board to visualize the effect of the proposed action on the applicant's building and its adjacent buildings and streetscapes. If such application involves a designated archeological site the applicant shall provide full plans and specifications of work that may affect the surface and subsurface of the archeological site. (b)The Board shall hold a public hearing upon an application for a special certificate of appropriateness affecting property under its control. In such instances, notice and procedure of the public hearing shall be given to the property owner(s) by certified mail and to other interested parties by an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. (c)The Board shall act upon an application within sixty (60) days of receipt of application materials adequately describing the proposed action. The Board shall approve, deny or approve in modified form an application, subject to the acceptance of the modification by the applicant, or suspend action on the application for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days in order to seek technical advice from outside its members or to meet further with the applicant to revise or modify the application. (d)The decision of the Board shall be issued in writing. Evidence of approval of the application shall be by certificate of appropriateness issued by the Board or the Board's designated staff representative to the applicant and, whatever its decision, notice in writing shall be given to the applicant and the Director of the Planning and Zoning Department. When an application is denied, the Board's notice shall provide an adequate written explanation of its decision to disapprove the application. The Board shall keep a record of its actions under this chapter. (e)Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of appropriateness, both regular and special certificates of appropriateness shall expire after 365 days. Staff may grant extensions of time of up to an additional 180 days for restoration or rehabilitation work only upon satisfaction that the scope of the work originally approved has not changed and provided a written request is filed and work is commenced before expiration of the certificate. (VI) Demolition. (a)Demolition of a designated building, structure, improvement or site may occur pursuant to an order of a government agency or a court of competent jurisdiction or pursuant to an approved application by the owner for a special certificate of appropriateness. (b)Government agencies having the authority to demolish unsafe structures shall receive notice of designation of individual sites, districts or archeological and paleontological zones pursuant to Section 16A-10. The staff of such agencies shall consult with the staff of the Historic Preservation Board before entering a demolition order or placing such properties on an official agenda. Such unsafe structures agencies shall not enter a demolition order unless they first determine in writing that there exists no feasible alternative to demolition. The Historic Preservation Board shall be deemed an interested party and shall receive ten days prior written notice of any public hearings conducted by said government agency regarding demolition of any designated property. The Board may make recommendations and suggestions to the government agency and the owner(s) relative to the feasibility of and the public interest in preserving the designated property. At the written request of the Director of Miami-Dade County's Office of Historic Preservation, such unsafe structure agencies shall continue any hearing on a property for not less than 30 days to allow consultation with the Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board. If an unsafe structures agency subjects a designated property to an order providing for demolition, the order shall also, at the written request of the Historic Preservation Board, establish a grace period of no less than 120 days to obtain a permit to repair the property, followed by no less than 180 days to complete such repairs. After entry of such a repair or demolish order, such unsafe structures agencies shall have the jurisdiction and authority to grant additional extensions of the grace period, provided the agency is satisfied that the repair will be completed in a reasonable time. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an unsafe structures agency from entering an order requiring a designated property to be secured. (c)No permit for voluntary demolition of a designated building, structure, improvement or site shall be issued to the owner(s) thereof until an application for a special certificate of appropriateness has been submitted and approved pursuant to the procedures in this section. Refusal by the Board to grant a special certificate of appropriateness shall be evidenced by written order detailing the public interest which is sought to be preserved. The Board shall be guided by the criteria contained in part (VI), subsection (d) herein. The Board may grant a special certificate of appropriateness which may provide for a delayed effective date. The effective date shall be determined by the Board based upon the relative significance of the structure and the probable time required to arrange a possible alternative to demolition. During the demolition delay period, the Board may take such steps as it deems necessary to preserve the structure concerned, in accordance with the purposes of this chapter. Such steps may include, but shall not be limited to, consultation with civic groups, public agencies and interested citizens, recommendations for acquisition of property by public or private bodies or agencies, and exploration of the possibility of moving one (1) or more structures or other features. (d)In addition to all other provisions of this chapter, the Board shall consider the following criteria in evaluating applications for a special certificate of appropriateness for demolition of designated properties: (1)Is the structure of such interest or quality that it would reasonably meet national, State or local criteria for designation as an historic or architectural landmark? (2)Is the structure of such design, craftsmanship, or material that it could be reproduced only with great difficulty and/or expense? (3)Is the structure one (1) of the last remaining examples of its kind in the neighborhood, the County or the region?(4)Does the structure contribute significantly to the historic character of a designated district?(5)Would retention of the structure promote the general welfare of the County by providing an opportunity for study of local history, architecture and design or by developing an understanding of the importance and value of a particular culture and heritage? (6)Are there definite plans for reuse of the property if the proposed demolition is carried out, and what will be the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area? (VII)[Building permit not to issue without certificate.] No building permit shall be issued by the Director of the Building Department which affects any designated property in Miami-Dade County without a certificate of appropriateness. (VIII)[Compliance of work with certificate standards.] All work performed pursuant to the issuance of any certificate of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of the certificate. The County Manager shall designate an appropriate official to assist the Board by making necessary inspections in connection with enforcement of this chapter and shall be empowered to issue a stop work order if performance is not in accordance with the issued certificate. No work shall proceed as long as a stop work order continues in effect. Copies of inspection reports shall be furnished to the Board and copies of any stop work orders both to the Board and the applicant. The Planning and Zoning Director or appropriate official and staff for the Board shall be responsible for ensuring that any work not in accordance with an issued certificate of appropriateness shall be corrected to comply with the certificate of appropriateness prior to withdrawing the stop work order. (IX)[Emergency, temporary measures.] For the purpose of remedying emergency conditions determined to be dangerous to life, health or property, nothing contained herein shall prevent the making of any temporary construction, reconstruction or other repairs to a building or site in Miami-Dade County, pursuant to an order of a government agency or a court of competent jurisdiction. The owner of a building damaged by fire or natural calamity shall be permitted to stabilize the building immediately without Board approval, and to rehabilitate it later under the normal review procedures to this chapter. (X)[No action to constitute approval.] If no action upon an application is taken within sixty (60) days from the date of application, such application shall be deemed to have been approved and no other evidence of approval shall be needed. This time limit may be waived by mutual written consent of the applicant and the Board. (XI)[Power of review.] The Board shall have the authority to review applications for certificates of appropriateness for all property in Miami-Dade County, however owned, by either private or public parties. The purposes of this chapter shall apply equally to plans, projects or work executed or assisted by any private party, governmental body or agency, department, authority or Board of the city, County or State. (XII)Archeological Sites or Districts. To protect a designated archeological site, district, or zone the Board may require any of the following: (1) an archeological survey at the applicant's expense conducted by an archeologist approved by the Board containing an assessment of the significance of the archeological site and an analysis of the impact of the proposed activity on the archeological site; (2) scientific excavation and evaluation of the site at the applicant's expense by an archeologist approved by the Board; (3) mitigation measures; and (4) protection or preservation of all or part of the archeological site for green space. The Board may require an archeological survey as a precondition to consider further action. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 11, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 98-125, § 10, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 03-38, § 11, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-12. Economic Hardship. Where, by reason of particular site conditions and restraints, or because of unusual circumstances applicable solely to the particular applicant property, strict enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in serious undue economic hardship to the applicant, the Board shall have the power to vary or modify adherence to this chapter; provided always that its requirements ensure harmony with the general purposes hereof and will not adversely affect Miami-Dade County. (a)In any instance where there is a claim of undue economic hardship, the owner shall submit, by affidavit, to the Board at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the following information: (1)For all property:(i)The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the party from whom purchased;(ii)The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon according to the two (2) most recent assessments;(iii)Real estate taxes for the previous two (2) years;(iv)Annual debt service, if any, for the previous two (2) years;(v)All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the owner or applicant in connection with his purchase, financing or ownership of the property; (vi)Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received, if any; and(vii)Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses for the property; and(viii)All cost estimates or reports relating to the demolition of the property obtained within the previous two (2) years;(ix)All cost estimates or reports relating to the rehabilitation or restoration of the property obtained within the previous two (2) years; (x)All reports relating to the engineering, architectural, or construction feasibility of rehabilitating or restoring the property obtained within the previous two (2) years; and (xi)All reports relating to the economic feasibility of restoring or rehabilitating the property obtained within the previous two (2) years, including market studies. (2)For income-producing property:(i)Annual gross income from the property for the previous two (2) years;(ii)Itemized operating and maintenance expenses for the previous two (2) years; and(iii)Annual cash flow, if any, for the previous two (2) years.(b)The Board may require that an applicant furnish such additional information as the Board believes is relevant to its determination of undue economic hardship. The owner shall permit access to the subject property for the purpose of inspections and/or appraisals required by the board or preservation officer. In the event that any of the required information is not reasonably available to the applicant and cannot be obtained by the applicant, the applicant shall file with his affidavit a statement of the information which cannot be obtained and shall describe the reasons why such information cannot be obtained. (Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 03-38, § 12, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-13. Maintenance of designated properties. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior elements of any building or structure which does not involve a change of design, appearance or material, and which does not require a building permit. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 12, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82) Sec. 16A-13.1. Demolition By Neglect Prohibited.(1) Affirmative Maintenance Required. The owner of a property designated pursuant to this chapter either individually or as a contributing part of a district shall comply with all applicable codes, laws and regulations governing the maintenance of property. It is the intent of this section to preserve from deliberate or inadvertent neglect the exterior features of such properties and the interior portions thereof when maintenance is necessary to prevent deterioration and decay of the property. All such properties shall be preserved against such decay and deterioration and shall be free from structural defects through prompt corrections of any of the following defects: (a)Facades which may fall and injure the subject property, adjoining property, or members of the public.(b)Deteriorated or inadequate foundation, defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports, deteriorated walls or other vertical structural supports. (c)Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members which sag, split or buckle due to defective material or deterioration. (d)Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs, foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors.(e)Any fault or defect in the property which renders it structurally unsafe, insufficiently protected from weathering, or not properly watertight. (2) Undue Economic Hardship. A property owner who believes that application of this section creates an undue economic hardship may apply for a variance under section 16A-12 (3) Enforcement. (a) Notice and Administrative Enforcement. When a Miami-Dade County Code Enforcement Officer learns of a violation of section (1), he or she shall give notice in writing of the violation to the owner, with specific written details of the corrective action necessary to remedy the violation. Such notice shall be given personally, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by posting on the property when the address of the owner cannot be located. The property owner shall have 30 days from the date of such notice to perform the corrective action. Thereafter, the Miami-Dade County Code Enforcement Officer may issue a civil citation pursuant to chapter 8CC of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (b) Action For Injunction And Remedial Relief; Lien on Property. If the Property Owner fails to take corrective action within the 30 day period provided in section 3(a), Miami-Dade County may file an action seeking: an injunction ordering the property owner to take corrective action; an order authorizing Miami-Dade County to enter onto the property to make the corrective actions; and civil penalties. The Court shall order an injunction providing such remedies if Miami-Dade County proves that the owner has violated this ordinance and such violation threatens the integrity or existence of an individual site or a contributing structure within a district. Such civil action may be initiated in the name of Miami-Dade County at the discretion of the County Manager upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the Historic Preservation Board. Settlements of such lawsuits may be obtained in the same manner. Nothing herein shall prevent the Board of County Commissioners from initiating or assuming direction of the lawsuit, at its discretion. In the event that the Court authorizes Miami-Dade County to enter onto the property to take the required corrective action, the Court shall also order that the cost of the corrective action shall constitute a lien against the property, accruing interest at the statutory rate for judgments until satisfied. (c) Civil Penalties. Violation of this section shall be punished by a civil penalty of five hundred dollars. After expiration of the thirty day period provided in section (3)(a), each day that the corrective action is not taken shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. No. 03-38, § 13, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-14. Certificates to dig.(I)Within an archeological or paleontological zone, new construction, filling, digging, the removal of trees, or any other activity that may alter or reveal an interred archeological or paleontological site shall be prohibited without a certificate to dig. All applications to all appropriate municipal or County agencies involving new construction, large-scale digging, the removal of trees or any other activity that may reveal or disturb an interred archeological or paleontological site, in an archeological or paleontological zone shall require a certificate to dig before approval. Based on the designation report for the archeological or paleontological zone, a complete application for a certificate to dig and any additional guidelines the Board may deem necessary, the staff of the Board shall, within ten (10) days from the date the completed application has been filed, approve the application for a certificate to dig by the owners of a property in a designated archeological or paleontological zone. The certificate to dig may be made subject to specified conditions, including but not limited to conditions regarding site excavation. In order to comply with the site excavation requirements of the certificate to dig, the applicant may agree to permit the County Archeologist to conduct excavation from the time of the approval of the certificate to dig until the effective date thereof. The findings of the staff shall be mailed to the applicant by registered mail promptly. The applicant shall have the opportunity to challenge the staff decision or any conditions attached to the certificate to dig by requesting a meeting of the Board. The Board shall convene within thirty-five (35) days after such a request and shall make every effort to review and reconsider the original staff decision to arrive at an equitable decision. The decision of the Board shall be reduced to writing within seven (7) days from the date of the meeting. (II) Approved certificates to dig. Approved certificates to dig shall contain an effective date not to exceed sixty (60) days at which time the proposed activity may begin, unless the Board decides to designate the site in question as an individual site or district pursuant to Section 16A-10 in which all the rules and regulations pertaining to the designation process shall apply from the date the designation report has been filed. (III)[Work to conform to certificate; stop work order.] All work performed pursuant to the issuance of a certificate to dig shall conform to the requirements of such certificate. It shall be the duty of the appropriate government agencies and the staff of the Board to inspect from time to time any work pursuant to such certificate to assure compliance. In the event work is performed not in accordance with such certificate, the official designated by the County Manager pursuant to Section 16A-11(IX)[VIII] shall be empowered to issue a stop work order and all work shall cease. No person, firm or corporation shall undertake any work on such projects as long as such stop work order shall continue in effect. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 13, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 03-38, § 14, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-15. Appeals. Within twenty (20) days of the written decision of the Board, an aggrieved party may appeal the decision by filing a written notice of appeal with the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners. The notice of appeal shall state the decision which is being appealed, the grounds for the appeal, and a brief summary of the relief which is sought. Within sixty (60) days of the filing of the appeal or the first regular County Commission meeting which is scheduled, whichever is later in time, the County Commission shall conduct a public hearing at which time they may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Board. Nothing contained herein shall preclude the County Commission from seeking additional information prior to rendering a final decision. The decision of the County Commission shall be in writing and a copy of the decision shall be forwarded to the Board and the appealing party. Within the time prescribed by the appropriate Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure, a party aggrieved by a decision of the County Commission may appeal an adverse decision to the Circuit Court in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida. The party taking the appeal shall be required to pay to the Clerk of the Board the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to defray the costs of preparing the record on appeal. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 14, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82) Sec. 16A-16. Penalties. Failure by an owner of record or any individual or private or public entity to comply with any provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation hereof and shall be punishable by civil or criminal penalties including a fine not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day for each day the violation continues and including a requirement that any work performed contrary to this chapter must be removed and the property returned to its condition prior to commencement of said action. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 15, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 88-28, § 3, 4-19-88) Sec. 16A-17. Incentives. All properties designated as individual sites or as designated properties within a district shall be eligible, upon application by the owner(s), for any available financial assistance set aside for historic preservation by Metropolitan Miami-Dade County contingent on the availability of funds and the scope of the project as described in the application. It is the policy of Miami-Dade County to assist the owners of historic properties through the development of a Conservation Easement Program to obtain applicable state and federal tax benefits, pursuant to sections 193.505 & 704.06, Florida Statutes and any other governing law, provided that the Board of County Commissioners shall approve the acceptance, terms, and conditions of any conservation easement before it is accepted by the County. The Historic Preservation Board may promulgate the rules for such Historic Conservation Easements and model covenants that shall be used by the County upon approval by the Board of County Commissioners. The Historic Preservation Board is authorized to apply for grants and other sources of funding for the creation of historic grant and loan programs. Any funds received shall be placed in a Historic Preservation Trust Fund and used only for the purposes for which they were received. The Historic Preservation Board is authorized to promulgate rules and model agreements for such a program which shall be used by the County upon approval by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. No. 81-13, § 16, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 82-99, § 1, 10-19-82; Ord. No. 03-38, § 15, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-18. Tax exemptions for renovations for historic properties.(a) Scope of tax exemptions. A method is hereby created for the Board of County Commissioners, at its discretion, to allow tax exemptions for the restoration, renovation, or rehabilitation of historic properties. The exemption shall apply to one hundred (100) percent of the assessed value of all improvements to historic properties which result from restoration, renovation, or rehabilitation made on or after the effective date of this ordinance. The exemption applies only to taxes levied by Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. The exemption does not apply to taxes levied for the payment of bonds or to taxes authorized by a vote of the electors pursuant to Section 9(b) or Section 12, Article VII of the Florida Constitution. The exemption does not apply to personal property. The exemption under this ordinance does not apply to properties within a community redevelopment area previously or hereafter established pursuant to Part III of Chapter 163, Florida Statutes, by either the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County or the governing body of any city or other municipality within Miami-Dade County. (b) Duration of tax exemptions. Any exemption granted under this section to a particular property shall remain in effect for ten (10) years. The Board of County Commissioners shall have the discretion to set a lesser term if requested by the property owner in its original application and covenant. The term of the exemption shall be specified in the resolution approving the exemption. The duration of the exemption as established in the resolution granting the exemption shall continue regardless of any change in the authority of the County to grant such exemptions or any change in ownership of the property. In order to retain an exemption, however, the historic character of the property, and improvements which qualified the property for an exemption, must be maintained in their historic state over the period for which the exemption was granted. (c) Eligible properties and improvements. (1)Property is qualified for an exemption under this section if:(A)At the time the exemption is granted the property:(1)Is individually listed in the National Register of Historic Places pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended; or (2)Is a contributing property to a national-register-listed district; or(3)Is designated as a historic property, or as a contributing property to a historic district, under the terms of a local preservation ordinance; and (B)The Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board has certified to the Board of County Commissioners that the property for which an exemption is requested satisfies paragraph (A). (2)In order for an improvement to a historic property to qualify the property for an exemption, the improvement must:(A)Be consistent with the United States Secretary of Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation; and(B)Be determined by the Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board to meet criteria established in rules adopted by the Department of State. (d) Applications. Any person, firm, or corporation that desires an ad valorem tax exemption for the improvement of a historic property must, prior to construction, file with the Office of Historic Preservation a written application on an approved form. The application must include the following information: (1)The name of the property owner and the location of the historic property;(2)A description of the improvements to real property for which an exemption is requested and the date of commencement of construction of such improvements; (3)Proof, to the satisfaction of the Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board, that the property this is to be rehabilitated or renovated is a historic property under this section; (4)Proof, to the satisfaction of the Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board, that the improvements to the property will be consistent with the United States Secretary of Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and will be made in accordance with guidelines developed by the Department of State; (5)Other information identified in appropriate Department of State regulations, or requested by the Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board; and (6)If the property is within the jurisdiction of the Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board, a completed application for a certificate of appropriateness for the qualifying restoration, renovation, or rehabilitation. (e) Required covenant. To qualify for an exemption, the property owner must enter into a covenant or agreement with the Board of County Commissioners for the term for which the exemption is granted. The form of the covenant or agreement must be established by the Department of State and must require that the character of the property, and the qualifying improvements to the property, be maintained during the period that the exemption is granted. The covenant or agreement shall be binding on the current property owner, transferees, and their heirs, successors, or assigns. Violation of the covenant or agreement results in the property owner being subject to the payment of the differences between the total amount of taxes which would have been due in March in each of the previous years in which the covenant or agreement was in effect had the property not received the exemption and the total amount of taxes actually paid in those years, plus interest on the difference calculated as provided in Section 212.12(3), Florida Statutes. (f) Review By Historic Preservation Board. The Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board, or its successor, is designated to review applications for exemptions. The Miami-Dade County Historic Preservation Board must recommend that the Board of County Commissioners grant or deny the exemption. Such reviews must be conducted in accordance with rules adopted by the Department of State. The recommendation, and the reasons therefor, must be provided to the applicant and to the Board of County Commissioners before consideration of the application at an official meeting of the Board of County Commissioners. (g) Approval By Board of County Commissioners. A majority vote of the Board of County Commissioners shall be required to approve a written application for exemption. Such exemption shall take effect as provided in the resolution. The Board of County Commissioners shall include the following in the resolution approving the written application for exemption: (1)The name of the owner and the address of the historic property for which the exemption is granted.(2)The period of time for which the exemption will remain in effect and the expiration date of the exemption.(3)A finding that the historic property meets the requirements of this section. (Ord. No. 93-15, § 1, 3-2-93; Ord. No. 99-90, § 2, 7-27-99; Ord. No. 03-38, § 16, 3-11-03) Sec. 16A-19. Classification and assessment of historic property used for commercial or certain nonprofit purposes. Miami-Dade County hereby elects to adopt the classification and assessment method provide in Section 193.503 of Florida Statutes (1997). Accordingly, subject to the definitions, conditions, and procedures established by that Section, Historic Property qualifying under that Section shall be assessed based upon actual use. Any such classification shall terminate upon repeal of Section 193.503 Florida Statutes or the repeal or sunset of this provision. (Ord. No. 99-90, § 1, 7-27-99) Sec. 16A-20. Settlement Authority. The Director of the Office of Historic Preservation has authority to settle any 8CC tickets issued to enforce this chapter. In making such a decision the Director shall consider the likelihood of prevailing and whether compliance was obtained. (Ord. No. 03-38, § 17, 3-11-03)

,Chapter 17 HOUSING [1]



,Chapter 17A VACANT STRUCTURES STANDARDS, MINIMUM [1]

Sec. 17A-1. Authority to enact; short title.Sec. 17A-2. Legislative findings and intent.Sec. 17A-3. Construction and applicability.Sec. 17A-4. Existing remedies preserved.Sec. 17A-5. Definitions.Sec. 17A-6. Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer—Powers.Sec. 17A-7. Identification of Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer; conflict of interest.Sec. 17A-8. Inspection of vacant housing structures and vacant premises.Sec. 17A-9. Notice of violations.Sec. 17A-10. Notice as final order.Sec. 17A-11. Recording of final order.Sec. 17A-12. Reserved.Sec. 17A-13. Remedies for enforcement; hindering or obstructing Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer.Sec. 17A-13.1. Recovery of enforcement costs.Sec. 17A-14. Power to act in emergencies.Sec. 17A-15. Appeals from actions or decisions of Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer.Sec. 17A-16. Standards for maintenance and appearance of vacant structures and vacant premises.Sec. 17A-17. Judicial review.Sec. 17A-18. Purpose and intent.Sec. 17A-19. Registration of single-family dwelling units subject to foreclosure.Sec. 17A-20. Registration inspection and enforcement procedure.Sec. 17A-21. Repeal clause.Sec. 17A-1. Authority to enact; short title. This chapter [is] enacted under and pursuant to the provisions of the Home Rule Charter of Government for Miami-Dade County, Florida, [and] shall be known as and may be cited as the "Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Minimum Standards for Vacant Structures Ordinance." (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95) Sec. 17A-2. Legislative findings and intent. The Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida, hereby finds and declares that in recent years and at present an increased number of vacant structures exists, especially in buildings which house multiple families, the maintenance and appearance of which are often neglected by the owners thereof, It is furthermore found and declared by this Board that said vacant structures often become open, unsecured, vandalized, or used for illicit purposes by trespassers, resulting in conditions that are unhealthy, unsafe, unsightly, and a blight upon the neighborhood and the community at large, and that the establishment of minimum standards for the maintenance and appearance of vacant structures will improve the security and quality of life in general of persons living nearby, will prevent blight and decay, and will safeguard the public health, safety, morals and welfare. The intent and purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, morals and welfare of all the people of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, by establishing minimum standards governing the maintenance and appearance of vacant structures; fixing certain responsibilities and duties of owners, operators and agents of vacant structures; authorizing and establishing procedures for the inspection of vacant structures; fixing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this chapter; setting forth a procedure for enforcement of this chapter and for the granting of variances to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter in cases of extreme hardship, when the health, safety, welfare and morals of the neighborhood, community and the public at large will not be detrimentally affected thereby, and where literal enforcement of this chapter would offer no meaningful benefit or advantage to the neighborhood, community and public at large; and by prohibiting human habitation in vacant structures found unsafe and ordered secured until written approval is given by the enforcing agency. This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and essential to the public interest, and it is intended that this chapter be liberally construed to effectuate the purposes as stated above. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95) Sec. 17A-3. Construction and applicability. The provisions of this chapter and the standards therein shall be applicable to the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. Every portion of a vacant structure, as defined herein, shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, irrespective of when such vacant structure shall have been constructed, altered or repaired, and irrespective of any permits or licenses which shall have been issued for the use or occupancy of the vacant structure, for the construction repair of equipment or facilities, prior to the effective date of this chapter. This chapter is intended and shall be construed as establishing minimum standards for the maintenance and appearance of all vacant structures. It is not intended to replace, modify, supersede or diminish the standards established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities by the South Florida Building Code (Ordinance No. 57-22, as amended). In any case where any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a material and controlling provision of zoning regulations, the South Florida Building Code, or any other County or municipal ordinance, code or regulation, or any rules or regulations of the Florida State Board of Health, the provision which establishes the highest standard shall prevail. All County and municipal departments, officials and employees who have the duty, responsibility or authority to issue permits or licenses in regard to the use and occupancy of commercial stuctures, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, or rooming units, as defined in Chapter 17 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, or similar facilities, shall conform to the provisions of this chapter, as a minimum standard. It shall be the duty and responsibility of municipal departments, officials and employees to enforce the minimum standards prescribed by the provisions of this chapter within the territorial limits of their respective municipalities. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95) Sec. 17A-4. Existing remedies preserved. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to abolish or impair any existing remedies relating to the removal of demolition of any vacant structures which are deemed to be dangerous, unsafe or unsanitary. This chapter shall not affect violations of any other County or municipal ordinance, code or regulations existing prior to the effective date of this chapter, and such violations shall be governed and shall continue to be punished to the full extent of the law under the provisions of those ordinances, codes or regulations in effect at the time the violation was committed. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95) Sec. 17A-5. Definitions. In construing the provisions of this chapter, where the context will permit and no definition is provided herein, the definitions provided in the Florida Building Code shall apply. The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section: (1) Accessory structure shall mean any secondary structure located on the parcel of land upon which a vacant structure is located, which is subordinate to and not forming an integral part of the major or principal building and may or may not be occupied for dwelling purposes; accessory structures shall include but not be limited to swimming pools, sheds, garages, barns and shacks. (2) Approval shall mean approved by the head of the enforcement agency or his authorized representative. (3) Basement shall mean that portion of a building having less than one-half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average finished grade of the ground adjoining the building and its ceiling not more than six (6) feet above said grade. (4) Cellar shall mean that portion of a building having one-half or more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average finished grade of the ground adjoining the building. (5) Dwelling shall mean any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, provided that temporary housing as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling. (6) Dwelling unit shall mean any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with facilities used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. (7) Enforcing agency shall mean the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County as defined and established in Section 17-7 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (8) Enforcing officer shall mean any employee of the enforcement agency charged with the responsibility of making inspection of buildings and premises and issuing violation notices when necessary. The term shall be synonymous with "inspecting officer." (9) Extreme hardship shall describe a condition existing in a case before the Minimum Housing Appeals Board when a vacant housing structure or vacant premises does not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter but is structurally sound and does not have safety deficiencies and when the repair of such structure or premises, in order to assure compliance with the Code, would result in great economic hardship to the owner, with commensurately little benefit to the owner, to the neighborhood, and to the public at large. (10) Garbage shall mean the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food. (11) Head of enforcement agency shall mean the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (12) Hotel shall mean any dwelling or commercial building, or any part of any dwelling or commercial building, containing one (1) or more hotel units in which space is let by the owner or operator on a predominantly temporary basis to three (3) or more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, sister or brother of the owner or operator. Motels and buildings offering dormitory-type sleeping accommodations shall be included in this category. (13) Hotel unit shall mean any room or group of hotel rooms forming a single habitable unit used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking and eating purposes. Motel units and dormitory-type sleeping accommodations shall be included in this category. (14) Infestation shall mean the presence of any insects, rodents, vermin, or other pests. (15) Inspecting officer shall be synonymous with the term "enforcing officer" as previously defined. (16) Occupant shall mean any person living, sleeping, cooking, eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling, dwelling unit, hotel unit or rooming unit. (17) Operator shall mean any person who has charge, care or control of vacant dwellings, vacant dwelling units, vacant hotels, vacant hotel units, vacant rooming houses, vacant rooming units, or vacant premises. Upon the filing of a lis pendens and/or an action, the purpose of which is to foreclose upon the mortgage or similar instrument that secures a debt upon the property, the owner and holder of the note and mortgage or other similar instrument shall be considered an operator of a vacant property for purposes of the maintenance of the vacant property as set forth in this Chapter. This status as an operator shall remain until such time as the property is sold or transferred to a new owner or the foreclosure action described herein is dismissed. (18) Owner shall mean any person, firm, trust, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legal entity, who individually, or jointly or severally with others, holds the legal or beneficial title to any vacant dwellings, vacant dwelling units, vacant hotels, vacant hotel units, vacant rooming houses, vacant rooming units, or vacant premises subject to the provisions of this chapter. The term "chapter" shall include, but not be limited to, the owner's duly authorized agent, a purchaser, devisee, fiduciary, property holder, or any other person, firm, trust, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legal entity having a vested or contingent interest in the vacant housing structures aforesaid, or, in the case of leased premises, the legal holder, beneficiary or lessee of a lease in the vacant housing structures aforesaid. It is intended that this term shall be construed as applicable to the person, firm, trust, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legal entity responsible for the maintenance or operation of the vacant housing structures aforesaid. (19) Rooming house shall mean any dwelling, or part of any dwelling, containing one (1) or more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator on a predominantly permanent basis to three (3) or more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, sister or brother of the owner or operator. For the purpose of this Code, boardinghouses are included in this category. (20) Rooming unit shall mean any room or group of rooms, forming a single habitable unit, used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for cooking or eating purposes. (21) Rubbish shall mean all combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage. The term shall include residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral matter, glass and crockery. (22) Supplied shall mean paid for, furnished, or provided by or under control of the owner or operator. (23) Temporary housing shall mean any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the ground, to another structure, or in a permanent manner to any utilities system. For the purpose of this Code, living quarters for migratory agricultural workers shall be defined as temporary housing. (24) Vacant commercial structure shall mean any vacant structure intended to be utilized in commerce or for commercial activities. (25) Vacant dwelling shall mean any building which is wholly or partially equipped for living, sleeping, cooking and eating but which is neither actually used nor intended by the owner to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. (26) Vacant dwelling unit shall mean any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling or vacant dwelling which forms a single unit wholly or partially equipped for living, sleeping, cooking and eating but which is neither actually used nor intended by the owner to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. (27) Vacant hotel shall mean any vacant commercial building containing one (1) or more vacant hotel units. (28) Vacant hotel unit shall mean any room or group of rooms located within a hotel, motel, or vacant hotel which forms a single unit wholly or partially equipped only for living and sleeping but not for cooking and eating and which is neither actually used nor intended by the owner to be used for living and sleeping. (29) Vacant premises shall mean any vacant structure and accessory structure thereof and the parcel of land upon which it is located. (30) Vacant rooming house shall mean any vacant building containing one (1) or more vacant rooming units. (31) Vacant rooming unit shall mean any rooms or group of rooms located within a rooming house or vacant rooming house which forms a single unit wholly or partially equipped for only living and sleeping but not for cooking and eating and which is neither actually used nor intended by the owner to be used for living and sleeping. (32) Vacant structure shall mean vacant commercial structures, vacant dwellings, vacant dwelling units, vacant hotels, vacant hotel units, vacant rooming units, and vacant premises. Whenever the words "vacant commercial structure, "vacant dwelling," "vacant dwelling unit," "vacant hotel," "vacant hotel unit," "vacant rooming house," "vacant rooming unit," "vacant premises," and "vacant housing structure" are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof." Any reference in this chapter to the words "approved," "adequate," "adequately," "properly installed," "properly connected," or "properly constructed," shall have reference to those standards set out in the South Florida Building Code, the rules of the State Board of Health, Chapters 5, 15 and 26A of the Metropolitan Code, and any other enactment of law applicable to the structure or particular portion or system of the structure under inspection by the enforcing agency. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 89-52, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95; Ord. No. 08-134, § 9, 12-2-08) Sec. 17A-6. Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer—Powers. In addition to the powers found in Sections 17-8 and 17-48 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall have the following powers: (1)The enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and any rules and regulations promulgated hereunder.(2)Investigate complaints and institute actions to correct violations of this chapter and initiate action through private contractors or his own employees to have vacant housing structures secured as warranted. In addition to inspections resulting from complaints, inspections may be made at the request of the owner of the subject property, provided such requested inspections are for the purpose of qualifying for participation in a governmental program. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall have the power and authority to charge and collect for making such inspections. The fees charged shall be as set forth in the Team Metro fee schedule as established by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida, as amended from time to time. (3)To make appropriate surveys and inspections to determine whether the provisions of this chapter are being complied with in Metropolitan Miami-Dade County and make recommendations for methods by which this chapter can be more effectively enforced and the standards herein raised. (4)To render all possible assistance and technical advice to owners and operators.(5)To publish and disseminate information to the public concerning all matters relating to this chapter.(6)Render all possible assistance and cooperation to federal, State and local agencies and officials in the accomplishment of effective minimum standards and controls. (7)The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall have the power and authority to charge and collect fees in accordance with the Team Metro fee schedule as amended from time to time and recover the costs of enforcement as provided for in this chapter. (8)To perform such other administrative duties as may be assigned by the County Manager. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 81-14, § 1, 2-17-81; Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, 4-19-88; Ord. No. 89-52, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 11, 9-3-98) Sec. 17A-7. Identification of Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer; conflict of interest. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer and all assistants shall be furnished with official identification cards signed by the County Manager, which identification cards shall contain the name of the officer, his photograph, and pertinent descriptive identifying information, and such other matters designed to facilitate recognition by the public of the status of such official. Upon request, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer and assistants shall exhibit such identification when entering any vacant commercial structure, vacant dwelling, vacant dwelling unit, vacant rooming house, vacant rooming unit, vacant hotel, vacant hotel unit, or vacant premises. The requirements of this section shall not in any wise be construed as relieving the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or assistants from compliance with the procedures prescribed in this chapter for making inspections. No official, board member or employee charged with the enforcement of this law shall have any financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any repairs, corrections, construction or demolition which may be required. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95) Sec. 17A-8. Inspection of vacant housing structures and vacant premises. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer and enforcing officers shall be authorized to make inspections to determine the condition of vacant commercial structures, vacant dwellings, vacant dwelling units, vacant rooming houses, vacant rooming units, vacant hotels, vacant hotel units, and vacant premises in order to safeguard the health, safety, morals and welfare of the public. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer and enforcing officers shall be authorized to enter any vacant commercial structure, vacant dwelling, vacant dwelling unit, vacant rooming house, vacant rooming unit, vacant hotel, vacant hotel unit or vacant premises at any reasonable time, or at such other time as may be necessary in an emergency, for the purpose of performing the duties of such office under this chapter, in accordance with the procedures herein prescribed. Except in emergencies endangering the public health, safety and welfare, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer and enforcing officers shall enter a vacant commercial structure, vacant dwelling, vacant dwelling unit, vacant rooming house, vacant rooming unit, vacant hotel, vacant hotel unit, or vacant premises only upon the prior consent of the owner, operator or the person having legal right of possession thereof, or in accordance with the provisions of this section. When the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or any enforcing officer has reason to believe that any vacant commercial structure, vacant dwelling, vacant dwelling unit, vacant rooming house, vacant rooming unit, vacant hotel, vacant hotel unit or vacant premises is in violation of the provisions of this chapter, or when such officer deems it necessary to make an inspection to determine whether a vacant structure or vacant premises is in violation of the standards established by this chapter, such officer shall request permission to make an inspection from the owner or operator thereof or from the person having the legal right of possession thereof. In the event that such person refuses to consent to the inspection the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or enforcing officer may apply to the County Court or Circuit Court for the issuance of an inspection warrant to be served by an officer duly authorized by law to serve inspection warrants and make arrests for violations of this chapter. The inspection warrant shall issue in accordance with the requirements of law, including Florida Statutes, Sections 933.20—933.30, and shall authorize entry into and inspection of the premises described therein. Refusal to permit an inspection pursuant to an inspection warrant authorized by this section shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties prescribed herein. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 86-47, § 2, 6-17-86; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95) Sec. 17A-9. Notice of violations. Whenever the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his or her assistant finds and determines that there has been a violation of the standards established by this chapter, he or she shall give notice of such violation to the owner and any operators. Such notice shall be in writing, shall specify the violation, and shall specify the time for compliance. Such notice shall specify that the violation must be corrected or a building permit for the work required to correct the violation must be obtained from Team Metro or appropriate municipal Building and Zoning Department and that final compliance must conform to the requirements of the South Florida Building Code. Such notice shall contain an outline of the remedial action which, if taken, will constitute compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Such notice shall inform the owner and any operators of the right to apply to the Minimum Housing Appeals Board for a hearing and review of matters within the notice and advise that failure to comply or appeal may result in the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer's securing the vacant structure without further notice to the owner or a hearing. Such notice may also inform the person or persons to whom it is directed that failure to comply may result in enforcement action as provided for in Section 17A-13 or Chapter 8CC of this Code. Such notice shall be served upon the owner and any operators. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served and binding upon the owner and upon any operators and upon the vacant structure or vacant premises involved if a copy is served by certified mail return receipt requested, addressed to the owner's and/or operator's last known address. If the owner cannot be served by certified mail, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the vacant structure or vacant premises involved. Such notice shall state the date of posting. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, 4-19-88; Ord. No. 89-52, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 11, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 08-134, § 10, 12-2-08) Sec. 17A-10. Notice as final order. Any notice of violation provided for in Section 17A-9 hereof shall automatically become a final order in the event that no written appeal from the notice of violation is filed with the Minimum Housing Appeals Board within ten (10) days after the date of service of the notice of violation. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80) Sec. 17A-11. Recording of final order. Whenever a notice of violation has become a final order, or whenever the violations specified in the notice have not been corrected within the time specified in the notice, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall file a copy of such final order, or other appropriate instrument indicating that violations of the standards established by this chapter exist upon the property involved, in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida, who shall cause the same to be recorded among the public records of Miami-Dade County in an appropriate book provided for such purpose. The recordation of such final order or other appropriate instrument as herein provided shall constitute constructive notice to any subsequent purchasers, transferees, grantees, mortgagors, mortgagees, lessees, lienors, and all persons having, claiming or acquiring any interest in the property described therein, or affected thereby. When the violations specified in the said final order shall have been corrected, and all costs of enforcement as provided hereinafter are paid, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall have recorded a certificate certifying that the violations have been corrected and cancelling the final order. All such final orders shall contain the proper legal description of the property involved. The cost of recording the original final order and the certificate of cancellation shall also be recoverable as costs from the owner of record of the property prior to recording the certificate of cancellation. Any person acquiring any interest in or to property described in a final order after recordation thereof shall be bound by the provisions thereof and shall take the property subject to the violations set forth in the final order. All such persons acquiring an interest in or to property for which a final order has been recorded under this section shall comply with the requirements thereof, and shall be subject to all of the other provisions of this chapter. Provided, however, that if the time for appeal from the final order as provided in Sections 17A-10 and 17A-15 has not run as of the time of conveyance, the new owner or transferee of an interest in or to property shall have ten (10) days from the date upon which the transfer of property interest is effective as to him within which to appeal the final order to the Minimum Housing Appeals Board. If an appeal of the final order has been perfected but a final decision of the Minimum Housing Appeals Board has not been rendered, the new owner or transferee may exercise all of the rights of appeal which would have been accorded to the prior owner or transferor. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 80-139, § 1, 12-16-80; Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, 4-19-88) Sec. 17A-12. Reserved.Editor's note— Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, adopted April 19, 1988, repealed § 17A-12, which pertained to records and searches, as derived from Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, adopted June 17, 1980. Sec. 17A-13. Remedies for enforcement; hindering or obstructing Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer.(a)It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the minimum standards established by this article, or to fail or refuse to comply with the requirements of any final order issued in accordance with the provisions of this article. Each day of continued violation shall be considered as a separate offense. (b)If any person shall knowingly fail or refuse to obey or comply with, or wilfully violates, any of the provisions of this article, or any lawful final order issued hereunder, such person, upon conviction of such offense, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days in the County Jail, or both, in the discretion of the court. (c)The provisions of this article and final orders issued in accordance with the provisions of this article may be enforced by mandatory injunction, or other appropriate civil action. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer may institute a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to impose and recover a civil penalty for each violation in an amount of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense. Each day, during any portion of which, such violation occurs constitutes a separate offense. (d)The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his assistant, may, in the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer's or his assistant's discretion, terminate an investigation or an action commenced under the provisions of this chapter upon execution of a written consent agreement between the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his assistant and the record owner of the land or an operator of the land which is the subject of the investigation or action. The consent agreement shall provide written assurance of voluntary compliance with all the applicable provisions of this chapter by the record owner or operator. The consent agreement shall provide the following: Repayment of costs of the county for investigation, enforcement, and litigation, including attorneys' fees; and remedial or corrective action. The consent agreement may, in the discretion of the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer upon agreement of the owner or operator, provide for compensatory damages, punitive damages and civil penalties. An executed written consent agreement shall neither be evidence of a violation of this chapter nor shall such agreement be deemed to impose any limitations upon any investigation or action by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his assistant, in the enforcement of this chapter. The consent agreement shall not constitute a waiver of or limitation upon the enforcement of any federal, state or local laws and ordinances. Executed written consent agreements are hereby deemed to be lawful orders of the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his assistant. Each violation of any of the terms and conditions of an executed written consent agreement shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter by the owner or operator who executed the consent agreement, his respective officers, directors, agents, servants, employees and attorneys; and by those persons in active concert or participation with any of the foregoing persons and who receive actual notice of the consent agreement punishable in accordance with the provisions of Section 17A-13 and Chapter 8CC of this Code. Each day during any portion of which each such violation occurs constitutes a separate offense under this chapter. Decisions and action of the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his assistant, pursuant to Section 17A-13(c) of this Code and written consent agreements executed thereunder, shall not be subject to appeal to or review by the Minimum Housing Appeals Board pursuant to Section 17A-15 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (e)If the owner or operator shall fail to comply with a final order within the time stipulated therein, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer may cause such vacant structure or vacant premises to be vacated if occupied, and initiate action through private contractors or his or her own employees to secure the vacant structure or vacant premises. (f)Any person who hinders, obstructs or resists the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his assistant in the discharge of his duty as provided in this chapter, upon conviction thereof in the County Court, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, 4-19-88; Ord. No. 89-52, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95; Ord. No. 08-134, § 11, 12-2-08) Sec. 17A-13.1. Recovery of enforcement costs.(a)The entire costs incurred by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer in enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall be paid by the owner, including but not limited to the cost of enforcement inspections, securing vacant housing structures, preparation of enforcement reports, photographs, title searches, postage and other administrative costs for enforcement and collection. The costs of enforcement shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the owner's receipt of Team Metro's bill itemizing the enforcement costs incurred in enforcing the provisions of this chapter. (b)The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall file among his records a fair and accurate statement of each item of expense with the date of execution of any action authorized by this chapter. (c)Team Metro may institute a civil suit to recover such expenses against the property or may cause such expenses to be charged against the real property as a lien, upon recordation of an enforcement lien in the public records of Miami-Dade County, Florida. A lien will remain on the real property after recordation as provided herein until such costs are fully paid and discharged, or barred by law. (d)Liens, imposed pursuant to Section 17A-13(c), may be discharged and satisfied by paying to Team Metro the amount specified in the notice of lien, together with interest thereon from the date of the filing of the lien computed at the rate of eighteen (18) percent per annum, together with the administrative costs, filing and recording fees and fees paid to file a satisfaction of the lien in the public records. When any such lien has been discharged, Team Metro shall promptly cause evidence of the satisfaction and discharge of such lien to be recorded in the public records. Any person, firm, corporation or legal entity, other than the present owner of the property involved, who pays any such unsatisfied lien shall be entitled to receive an assignment of the lien held by the County and shall be subrogated to the rights of the County in respect to the enforcement of such lien, as permitted by law. (Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, 4-19-88; Ord. No. 89-52, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 11, 9-3-98) Sec. 17A-14. Power to act in emergencies. Whenever the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer finds that a violation of the provisions of this chapter exists which requires immediate action to abate a direct and continuing hazard or immediate danger to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or the public, such officer may, without prior notice, issue an order or civil violation notice pursuant to Chapter 8CC of this Code citing the violation and directing that such action be taken as may be necessary including but not limited to condemning the property and ordering the premises to be vacated until the hazard or danger is removed or abated. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such emergency order shall be effective immediately upon service and shall be complied with immediately, or as otherwise provided. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, 4-19-88; Ord. No. 95-30, § 1, 2-7-95) Sec. 17A-15. Appeals from actions or decisions of Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer. Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer may appeal to the Minimum Housing Appeals Board by filing with the Board, within ten (10) days after the date of the action or decision complained of, a written notice of appeals which shall set forth concisely the action or decision appealed from and the reasons or grounds for the appeal. The Board shall set such appeal for hearing at the earliest possible date and cause notice thereof to be given to the appellant and the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer. The Board shall hear and consider all facts material to the appeal and render a decision promptly. The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the action or decision appealed from, provided that the Board shall not take any action which conflicts or nullifies any of the provisions of this chapter. The Board shall specifically state in its decision the date by which compliance must be made. The decision of the Board shall be final. No rehearing or reconsideration shall be considered except when granted by majority vote of the Board. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board on appeal taken to it, including, but not limited to, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer, may apply to the Circuit Court of Miami-Dade County for a review by writ of certiorari in accordance with the applicable Florida Appellate Rules. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80) Sec. 17A-16. Standards for maintenance and appearance of vacant structures and vacant premises. Every vacant structure and vacant premises shall comply with the following requirements: (1)Every foundation wall shall be structurally sound, reasonably rodentproof, and maintained in good repair.(2)Exterior walls and roofs shall be kept in good repair.(3)Windows and exterior doors shall be weathertight, watertight and rodentproof and shall be maintained in good condition.(4)All exterior areas that show evidence of rot or other deterioration shall be repaired or replaced.(5)Every exterior stairway, porch and appurtenance shall be maintained in good repair.(6)All exterior surfaces subject to deterioration shall be properly maintained and protected from the elements by paint or other approved protective coating applied in a workmanlike fashion. (7)Every utility connection shall be free from defects, disconnected, removed or otherwise made safe.(8)Vacant dwelling units shall be provided with utility connections for the following type of facility: an installed nonportable cooking facility which shall not be capable of being carried easily by one (1) person and which shall have at least two (2) top burners. (9)Every plumbing fixture, waterpipe, wastepipe, and drain shall be free from defects, leaks, and obstructions.(10)Exterior premises shall be kept free from the excessive growth of weeds, grass, and other flora. The term "excessive growth" shall mean growth which is detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare and which generally detracts from the appearance of the neighborhood. (11)Vacant housing structures shall be weathertight, watertight, clean, sanitary, and free from infestation, rubbish, and garbage.(12)Vacant structures shall be secure at all times. The owner or operator of any vacant structure found unguarded and open as aforesaid shall be given notice of such violation by the enforcing officer unless enforcement action is initiated by the Building Official in accordance with the provisions of the South Florida Building Code, in which case notice of the violation will be provided as required therein. The notice shall require immediate action to secure and seal the vacant structure in a manner that abates temporarily the unsafe conditions by using concrete blocks, storm shutters, or other materials of the same durability as determined by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer and construction methods which are in keeping with good workmanship and appearance, and are otherwise in compliance with the South Florida Building Code. In no event shall a vacant structure remain secured by the use of concrete blocks, storm shutters, or similar materials for a period exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days as that period may be extended pursuant to the South Florida Building Code. Prior to the expiration of the stated period, the vacant structure must be completed and brought into full compliance with the South Florida Building Code. Failure to comply with this requirement shall constitute a violation of this section. Swimming pools are to be secured by filling in with sand, or by fencing or by using another approved method as determined by the minimum housing enforcement officer. Vacant structures temporarily ordered secured as provided aforesaid shall not be used or occupied until written approval is given by the enforcing agency. The provisions of this section shall be complementary to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of the South Florida Building Code relating to unsafe structures. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80; Ord. No. 88-29, § 1, 4-19-88; Ord. No. 89-52, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 93-56, § 1, 5-20-93; Ord. No. 95-228, § 1, 12-19-95) Sec. 17A-17. Judicial review. Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any final action taken or final decision rendered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, may seek to have such action or decisions reviewed by the Circuit Court of Miami-Dade County by petition for certiorari in the manner prescribed by the rules of court, provided such person or persons shall have first exhausted the administrative remedies provided for herein. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80) Sec. 17A-18. Purpose and intent. It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners, through the enactment of sections 17A-18 to 17A-20 to provide a registry of single-family residential dwelling units, including condominium, duplexes and townhome units, where the individual unit is the subject of a Foreclose Action. Through this registry, residences that are at risk of or have become vacant, overgrown, dilapidated or in poor repair can be tracked and remediated to prevent blight or unsightly conditions. The definitions contained in section 17A-5 shall apply throughout this section. (Ord. No. 08-134, § 12, 12-2-08) Sec. 17A-19. Registration of single-family dwelling units subject to foreclosure. Upon the filing of a lis pendens or an action to foreclose upon a mortgage or other instrument of debt which debt is secured by the real property of a single-family dwelling unit, whether a house, townhouse, condominium or duplex, the holder or owner of said mortgage or other debt instrument, or the party bringing the foreclosure action, shall immediately register the single-family dwelling unit with the Office of Neighborhood Compliance. The registration shall be upon forms as are designated by the Director of the Department and shall be accompanied by the approved registration fee as established in the Department's duly enacted fee schedule. (Ord. No. 08-134, § 13, 12-2-08) Sec. 17A-20. Registration inspection and enforcement procedure. Upon registration of any dwelling unit as set forth in section 17A-19, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or his or her assistant shall conduct an inspection of the registered real property to determine its compliance with the provisions of this Chapter 17A and/or the provisions of Chapter 19 of the County Code. (Ord. No. 08-134, § 14, 12-2-08) Sec. 17A-21. Repeal clause. This chapter is intended and shall be construed as constituting minimum standards for all governmental units in Metropolitan Miami-Dade County for vacant housing structures and vacant premises, in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.01(A)(18) of the Home Rule Charter of Government for Miami-Dade County, Florida. To the extent of the standards herein provided, all county and municipal ordinances and resolutions, municipal charters, and special laws applying only to Miami-Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution to supersede, nullify, or amend and any part of any such ordinance, resolution, charter, or law, in conflict with or inconsistent with the standards herein established, are hereby repealed and superseded. (Ord. No. 80-65, § 1, 6-17-80) Editor's note— Ord. No. 08-134 added provisions designated as §§ 17A-18—17A-20. In order to avoid duplication of section numbers former § 17A-18 has been redesignated to read as herein set out.

,Chapter 17B METROPOLITAN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY DEMOLITION OFUNINHABITABLE STRUCTURES ORDINANCE [1]

Sec. 17B-1. Authority to enact chapter; short title.Sec. 17B-2. Legislative findings and intent.Sec. 17B-3. Construction and applicability.Sec. 17B-4. Existing remedies preserved.Sec. 17B-5. Definitions.Sec. 17B-6. Violation.Sec. 17B-7. Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer; duties and powers.Sec. 17B-8. Inspection of uninhabitable structures.Sec. 17B-9. Notice; contents and posting.Sec. 17B-10. Written notice.Sec. 17B-11. Notice by publication.Sec. 17B-12. Final order.Sec. 17B-13. Recording of final order.Sec. 17B-14. Appeals to the Minimum Housing Appeals Board.Sec. 17B-15. Uninhabitable structures.Sec. 17B-16. Recovery of cost; liens.Sec. 17B-1. Authority to enact chapter; short title. This chapter is enacted under and pursuant to the provisions of the Home Rule Charter of Government for Miami-Dade County, Florida, and shall be known and may be cited as the "Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Demolition of Uninhabitable Structures Ordinance." (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-2. Legislative findings and intent. The Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida, hereby finds and declares that in recent years and at present an increased number of uninhabitable structures exist, the maintenance of which is often neglected by the owners thereof. It is furthermore found and declared by this Board that said structures often become open, unsecured, vandalized, or used for illicit purposes by trespassers, resulting in conditions that are unhealthy, unsafe, unsightly, and a blight upon the neighborhood and community at large, and that the demolition of uninhabitable structures will improve the security and quality of life in general of persons living nearby, will prevent blight and decay, and will safeguard the public health, safety, morals and welfare. In particular, and without prejudice to the above findings, it is found and declared by the Board that said structures are often used for the distribution and consumption of narcotics and other controlled substances thereby constituting a health and safety hazard to the public and community at large. The intent and purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, morals, and welfare of all the people of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, by establishing standards governing the demolition of certain structures; authorizing and establishing procedures for the demolition of the same and setting forth a procedure for the enforcement of this chapter by prohibiting human habitation in and ordering the demolition of structures found uninhabitable. This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and essential to the public interest, and it is intended that this chapter be liberally construed to effectuate the purposes as stated above. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-3. Construction and applicability. The provisions of this chapter and the standards set forth herein shall be applicable to the unincorporated and incorporated areas of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. The provisions of this chapter shall apply irrespective of when such structure shall have been constructed, altered or repaired, and irrespective of any permits or licenses which shall have been issued for the use or occupancy of the structure or for the construction or repair of the structure prior to the effective date of this chapter. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-4. Existing remedies preserved. The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and supplemental to and not in derogation of any provisions of the Florida Statutes, the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County or any other applicable law. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-5. Definitions. When used in this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: (1) Uninhabitable structures: Those structures which meet the criteria set forth in Section 17B-15 (2) Owner: The taxpayer with respect to the real property concerned as reflected in the most recently certified real property ad valorem tax roll of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County; provided, however, where the records of the Miami-Dade County Property Appraiser indicate that ownership of the property has changed, the owner shall be the taxpayer as reflected by such records. (3) Interested parties: The owner as defined above and any other person or entity who has previously requested real property ad valorem tax notices with respect to the subject property in accordance with Section 197.344 Florida Statutes 1987, as the same may be renumbered or amended from time to time. (4) Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer: Any employee of the enforcement agency charged with the responsibility of making inspections of structures and premises and issuing orders when necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-6. Violation. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to erect, establish, maintain, owe, lease or allow to exist an uninhabitable structure as defined in Section 17B-15. Any such violation shall be redressed by Metropolitan Miami-Dade County in the manner set forth in this chapter. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-7. Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer; duties and powers. In addition to the duties, functions, powers and responsibilities found in Sections 17-18, 17-48, and 17A-6 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall have the right to enforce the provisions of this chapter and any regulations promulgated hereunder. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-8. Inspection of uninhabitable structures. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer has the authority to inspect any structure for the purpose of determining whether the same is unhabitable. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-9. Notice; contents and posting. If, after inspection, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer finds a structure to be uninhabitable, the Officer shall issue a notice stating that the structure has been found to be uninhabitable. Such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous location on the structure which the Officer has determined to be uninhabitable, and shall be in substantially the following form: ORDER TO DEMOLISH UNINHABITABLE STRUCTURE This structure has been found by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer to be uninhabitable pursuant to Chapter 17B of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. THIS STRUCTURE SHALL BE VACATED—SHALL NOT BE OCCUPIED. The owner or holder of a secured interest in this structure shall demolish the same within twenty (20) days of this order or the same may be subject to demolition by Metropolitan Miami-Dade County or the municipality. THE OWNER OR HOLDER OF A SECURED INTEREST IN THIS PROPERTY MAY APPEAL THIS FINDING WITHIN TWENTY (20) DAYS OF THE DATE INDICATED BELOW BY SUBMITTING A WRITTEN PETITION TO: Chairman, Minimum Housing Appeals Board ADDRESS CAUTION: FAILURE TO APPEAL MAY RESULT IN THE DEMOLITION OF THIS STRUCTURE WITHOUT FURTHER NOTICE OF HEARING. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88; Ord. No. 98-125, § 12, 9-3-98) Sec. 17B-10. Written notice. Within seventy-two (72) hours of posting the order to demolish an uninhabitable structure pursuant to Section 17B-9, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall send the owner and any interested parties a written notice setting forth the defects which render the structure uninhabitable and the time within which the structure must be demolished or appeal requested. Such notice shall be sent by certified or first class mail addressed to all such parties' last known addresses as reflected in the records of the Miami-Dade County Property Appraiser. The lack of a signed return receipt shall not constitute a failure to notify interested parties. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-11. Notice by publication. A notice shall be published by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer in a newspaper of general circulation in Miami-Dade County once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks. The published notice shall contain the street address of the subject property and the names of the owner and any interested parties. The notice required by this section shall state that the subject property has been found to be uninhabitable and is subject to demolition, and that the finding may be appealed by written petition to the Minimum Housing Appeals Board within the applicable time period. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-12. Final order. The order to demolish an uninhabitable structure as provided for in Section 17B-9 shall automatically become a final order authorizing demolition in the event that no written appeal from the notice is received by the Minimum Housing Appeals Board twenty (20) days after the date of posting. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-13. Recording of final order. Whenever the order to demolish an uninhabitable structure becomes a final order authorizing demolition, as provided in Section 17B-12 or pursuant to a decision by the Minimum Housing Appeals Board as provided in Section 17B-14, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall file a copy of such final order, together with the street address or legal description of the subject property, with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida, who shall cause the same to be recorded among the public records of Miami-Dade County. The recordation of such final order or other appropriate instrument as herein provided shall constitute constructive notice to any subsequent purchasers, transferees, grantees, mortgagors, mortgagees, lessees, lienors, and all persons having, claiming or acquiring any interest in the property described therein, or affected thereby. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-14. Appeals to the Minimum Housing Appeals Board. The owner, the holder of a secured interest in the property, or any interested party may appeal the findings of the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer to the Minimum Housing Appeals Board by submitting a written petition within twenty (20) days of the date indicated on the posted notice to: Chairman, Minimum Housing Appeals Board ADDRESS The Board shall hear and consider all facts material to the appeal and may affirm, reverse or modify the findings of the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may seek judicial review in accordance with the applicable Florida Appellate Rules. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88; Ord. No. 98-125, § 12, 9-3-98) Sec. 17B-15. Uninhabitable structures.(1)A structure shall be uninhabitable when:(a)It is visited by persons for the purpose of unlawfully procuring or using any controlled substance, as defined under Chapter 893 of the Florida Statutes, or any drugs, as defined in Chapter 499 of the Florida Statutes; or (b)It is used for the illegal keeping, selling or delivering of such controlled substances or drugs; and the structure is found to have one (1) or more of the following characteristics: (i)It is vacant, unguarded and open at doors or windows,(ii)There is an unwarranted accumulation of debris or other combustible material therein,(iii)The structure's condition creates hazards with respect to means of egress and fire protection as provided for the particular occupancy, (iv)There is a falling away, hanging loose or loosening of any siding, block, brick, or other building material,(v)There is deterioration of the structure or structural parts,(vi)The structure is partially destroyed,(vii)There is an unusual sagging or leaning out of plumb of the structure or any parts of the structure and such effect is caused by deterioration or over-stressing, (viii)The electrical or mechanical installations or systems create a hazardous condition, or(ix)An unsanitary condition exists by reason of inadequate or malfunctioning sanitary facilities or waste disposal systems.(2)A structure shall be presumed to be utilized for the purpose set forth in (1)(a) or (b) above when there are one (1) or more arrests or police reports of incidents which involve the keeping, consumption, or delivery of controlled substances or drugs on the premises of the subject structure during the period of six (6) months preceding the posting of notice by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer. (3)A structure found to be uninhabitable as provided herein shall be subject to demolition. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88) Sec. 17B-16. Recovery of cost; liens.(1)All costs incurred pursuant to this chapter shall be paid by the owner.(2)The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall file among his records an affidavit stating the items of expense and the date of execution of actions authorized by this chapter. (3)The enforcing agency may institute a suit to recover such expenses against the owner and may cause such expenses to be charged against the property as a lien. Any lien imposed for demolition shall constitute a special assessment lien against the real property and until fully paid, discharged released or barred by law shall remain a lien equal in rank and dignity to a lien of county ad valorem taxes and superior in rank and dignity to all other liens, encumbrances, titles and claims in, to or against the real property involved. (Ord. No. 88-59, § 1, 7-5-88)

,Chapter 17C METROPOLITAN DADE COUNTY DEMOLITION OF MOBILE HOMES AND REMOVAL OF DEBRIS FROM MOBILE HOME PARKS RENDERED UNINHABITABLE BY HURRICANE ANDREW AFTER ITS AFTERMATH

Sec. 17C-1. Authority to enact.Sec. 17C-2. Legislative findings and intent.Sec. 17C-3. Construction and applicability.Sec. 17C-4. Existing remedies preserved.Sec. 17C-5. Definitions.Sec. 17C-6. Violation.Sec. 17C-7. Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer; duties and powers.Sec. 17C-8. Inspection of mobile home parks.Sec. 17C-9. Notice; contents and posting.Sec. 17C-10. Notice by publication.Sec. 17C-11. Final order.Sec. 17C-12. Recording of final order.Sec. 17C-13. Uninhabitable mobile home parks.Sec. 17C-14. Preservation of personal property.Sec. 17C-1. Authority to enact. This chapter is enacted under and pursuant to the provisions of the Home Rule Charter of Government for Dade County, Florida, the proclamations of the County Manager and the Governor of the State of Florida declaring a state of emergency, and the police powers inherent in county government to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-2. Legislative findings and intent. The whereas clauses contained in Ordinance Number 92-90 shall constitute the legislative findings on which this chapter is based. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-3. Construction and applicability. The provisions of this chapter and the standards set forth herein shall be applicable to the unincorporated and incorporated areas of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. The provisions of this chapter shall apply irrespective of when such mobile home parks shall have been constructed, altered or repaired, irrespective of any permits or licenses which shall have been issued for the use or occupancy thereof or for the construction or repair thereof prior to the effective date of this chapter and irrespective of whether any person is living in or around such mobile home parks declared uninhabitable. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-4. Existing remedies preserved. The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and supplemental to and not in derogation of any provisions of the Florida Statutes, the Code of Metropolitan Dade County or any other applicable law. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-5. Definitions. When used in this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: (1) Mobile home means a moveable or portable detached single-family dwelling designed for and capable of being used for long-term occupancy, designed to be transported after fabrication on its own permanent chassis and wheels, arriving at the site substantially complete, (2) Mobile home park means a place set aside and offered by a person or public body, for either direct or indirect remuneration of the owner, lessor, or operator of such place, for the parking or accommodation of mobile homes utilized for sleeping or eating, (3) Uninhabitable mobile home park means those mobile home parks which meet the criteria set forth in Section 17C-13 (4) Owner means the taxpayer with respect to the real property concerned as reflected in the most recently certified real property ad valorem tax roll of Metropolitan Dade County; provided however, where the records of the Dade County Property Appraiser indicate that ownership of the property has changed, the owner shall be the taxpayer as reflected by such records. (5) Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer means any employee of the enforcement agency charged with the responsibility of making inspections of mobile home and trailer parks damaged by Hurricane Andrew and premises and issuing orders when necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-6. Violation. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to erect, establish, maintain, own, lease or allow to exist an uninhabitable mobile home park as defined in Section 17C-13. Any such violation shall be redressed by Metropolitan Dade County or the United States Army Corps of Engineers or its designee (hereinafter referred to as "Army Corps") in the manner set forth in this chapter. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-7. Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer; duties and powers. In addition to the duties, functions, powers, and responsibilities found in Sections 17-18, 17-48, 17A-6, and 17-B of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall have the right to enforce the provisions of this chapter and any regulations promulgated hereunder. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-8. Inspection of mobile home parks. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer has the authority to inspect any mobile home park for the purpose of determining whether the same is uninhabitable. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-9. Notice; contents and posting. If, after inspection, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer finds a mobile home park to be uninhabitable, the Officer shall issue a notice stating that the mobile home park has been found to be uninhabitable. Such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous location at the mobile home park which the Officer has determined to uninhabitable, and shall be in substantially the following form: ORDER TO DEMOLISH MOBILE HOMES AND REMOVE DEBRIS FROM UNINHABITABLE MOBILE HOME PARK This mobile home park has been found by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer to be uninhabitable pursuant to Chapter 17C of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County. THIS MOBILE/HOME PARK SHALL BE VACATED — SHALL NOT BE OCCUPIED. The owner or holder of a secured interest in this mobile home park shall demolish the mobile homes and remove the debris therefrom within 24 hours of this order or the same will be demolished by Metropolitan Dade County, the municipality or the Army Corps of Engineers or its agents. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-10. Notice by publication. A notice shall be published by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer in a newspaper of general circulation in Dade, Broward and Monroe counties as soon as is practicable after the order to demolish has been posted as provided for in Section 17C-9. Additional publication shall, where feasible, be made in newspapers of general circulation which in the judgment of the county manager may be read by occupants of such affected parks. Failure to provide the foregoing additional publication shall not affect the validity of any actions hereunder. The published notice shall contain the street address of the subject property or adequate general description of the area, neighborhood or subdivision in which the uninhabitable mobile home park is located, and, where known to the county, a list of the occupants of the mobile home park. Failure to include such listing of occupants shall not affect the validity of any actions taken hereunder. The notice required by this section shall state that the subject property has been found to be uninhabitable and will be demolished. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-11. Final order. The ORDER TO DEMOLISH MOBILE HOMES AND REMOVE DEBRIS FROM UNINHABITABLE MOBILE HOME PARK as provided for in Section 17C-9 shall automatically become a final order authorizing demolition within twenty-four (24) hours of the date the order to demolish is posted. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-12. Recording of final order. Whenever the ORDER TO DEMOLISH MOBILE HOMES AND REMOVE DEBRIS FROM UNINHABITABLE MOBILE HOME PARK becomes a final order authorizing demolition, as provided in Section 17C-11, the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer shall file a copy of such final order together with the street address or legal description of the subject property, with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Dade County, Florida, who shall cause the same to be recorded among the public records of Dade County. The recordation of such final order or other appropriate instrument as herein provided shall constitute constructive notice to any subsequent purchasers, transferees, grantees, mortgagors, mortgagees, lessees, lienors, and all persons having, claiming or acquiring any interest in the property described therein, or affected thereby. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-13. Uninhabitable mobile home parks.(1)Mobile home parks shall be uninhabitable when as a result of damage caused by Hurricane Andrew all or a substantial majority of the mobile homes located at such parks: (a)Are vacant, unguarded and open at doors, windows or roof,(b)Are open at windows, doors or roof,(c)There is unwarranted accumulation of debris or other combustible material therein or on the land or lot on which such mobile homes are or were situated. (d)The condition of the parks, or land or lot upon which the mobile homes are or were situated creates hazards with respect to means of egress and fire protection, (e)Have a falling away, hanging loose or loosening of any sidings, or other building material,(f)Have deterioration of their structural parts,(g)Are practically or fully destroyed,(h)Have an unusual sagging or leaning out of plumb which is caused by deterioration or over-stressing,(i)Have electrical or mechanical installations or systems create a hazardous condition,(j)Have an unsanitary condition by reasons of inadequate or malfunctioning sanitary facilities or waste disposal systems, or(k)Have a condition which creates, allows or threatens to generate widespread or epidemic health or safety hazards.(2)All mobile homes located in a mobile home park which park has been found to be uninhabitable as provided herein shall be subject to demolition and the debris removed therefrom. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92) Sec. 17C-14. Preservation of personal property. The Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer and/or Army Corps shall undertake reasonable efforts to transport and secure items or personalty, not immediately transportable by the owners and which do not pose any health or safety hazard as may be determined by the Minimum Housing Enforcement Officer or Army Corps. (Ord. No. 92-90, § 1, 9-2-92)

,Chapter 18 IMPROVEMENT AND SPECIAL-PURPOSE DISTRICTS



,Chapter 18A MIAMI-DADE COUNTY LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE [1]

Sec. 18A-1. Short title and applicability.Sec. 18A-2. Purpose and intent.Sec. 18A-3. Definitions.Sec. 18A-4. Plans required.Sec. 18A-5. Tree removal and preservation.Sec. 18A-6. Minimum standards.Sec. 18A-7. Landscape plan review criteria.Sec. 18A-8. Preparer's certification of landscape compliance.Sec. 18A-9. Committee of landscape adjustment.Sec. 18A-10. Landscape Manual.Sec. 18A-11. Landscape maintenance.Sec. 18A-12. Prohibitions.Sec. 18A-13. Enforcement.Sec. 18A-14. Conflicts with other ordinances or regulations.Sec. 18A-15. Effective date.Sec. 18A-1. Short title and applicability.(A) [Title.] This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Miami-Dade County Landscape Ordinance". (B) Applicability. (1)This chapter shall be a minimum standard and shall apply to both the incorporated and unincorporated areas, and in the unincorporated area shall be enforced by the County and in the incorporated areas shall be enforced by the municipalities; provided, any municipality may establish and enforce more stringent regulations as such municipality may deem necessary; and in the event the provisions hereof are not enforced within any municipality, the County shall enforce same. (2)The provisions of this chapter shall be considered minimum standards and shall apply to all public and private development when a permit is required, except for the following: (a)Existing attached and detached single family and duplex dwellings, including any future additions or expansions shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (b) Bonafide agricultural activities. Any property receiving an agricultural classification and assessment pursuant to Section 193.461 Florida Statutes, substantiated by a plan submitted indicating the area with the agricultural classification. (c)Except as provided for in Section 33-284.63(A) of this Code, development within the Downtown Kendall Urban Center District pursuant to Article XXXIII(I) of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (3)Existing development as defined in Section 18A-3(O) shall only be required to comply with the street tree requirements of Section 18A-6(C)(2) and parking lot buffers of Section 18A-6(I). This requirement shall not apply to existing attached and detached single family and duplex dwellings pursuant to subsection (2)(a) above. Parking lot buffer will not be required if inadequate area exists which will cause the elimination of any required parking pursuant to County or municipal code. The provisions of this subsection shall only apply where a building permit is required for external alterations or where a paving permit is required for expansion of parking areas. Routine maintenance such as re-roofing and painting shall not be considered external alterations. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 99-166, § 3, 12-16-99) Sec. 18A-2. Purpose and intent. It is the intent of this chapter to establish minimum landscape standards for Incorporated and Unincorporated Miami-Dade County that enhance, improve and maintain the quality of the landscape, and to: (A)Promote Florida Friendly landscaping principles through the use of drought-tolerant plant species, grouping of plant material by water requirements, the use of irrigation systems that conserve the use of potable and nonpotable water supplies and restrictions on the amount of lawn areas. Florida Friendly landscape principles also promote planting the right plant in the right place and appropriate fertilization and mulching. (B)Use landscape material, specifically street trees, to visually define the hierarchy of roadways, and to provide shade and a visual edge along roadways. (C)Prevent the destruction of the community's existing tree canopy and promote its expansion.(D)Provide for the preservation of existing natural forest communities and specimen sized trees in conformance with Section 24-60, as may be amended from time to time; re-establish native habitat where appropriate, and encourage the appropriate use of native plant material in the landscape. (E)Promote the use of trees and shrubs for energy conservation by encouraging cooling through the provision of shade and the channeling of breezes, thereby helping to offset global warming and local heat island effects through the added absorption of carbon dioxide and reduction of heat islands. (F)Contribute to the processes of air movement, air purification, oxygen regeneration, ground water recharge, and stormwater runoff retention, while aiding in the abatement of noise, glare, heat, air pollution and dust generated by major roadways and intense use areas. (G)Improve the aesthetic appearance of commercial, industrial and residential development through the use of plant material, thereby protecting and increasing property values within the community, and protecting designated historic landscapes. (H)Reduce the negative impacts of exotic pest plant species and prohibit the use of noxious exotic plants which invade native plant communities. (I)Promote the use of trees to protect and buffer the effects of high winds on structures.(J)Promote the concept of planting the right tree or plant in the right place to avoid problems such as clogged sewers, cracked sidewalk and power services interruptions. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 09-35, § 1, 5-5-09) Sec. 18A-3. Definitions. The definitions contained in Chapters 24 and 33, Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, shall apply to this chapter except as otherwise changed herein: Accessways: The maximum width of an accessway through the perimeter landscaped strip to an off-street parking or other vehicular use area shall be determined according to the Public Works Manual, Part I, Standard Details. No more than one (1) two-way accessway shall be permitted or any street frontage up to one hundred (100) lineal feet or no more than two (2) one-way accessways shall be permitted for any street frontage up to one hundred (100) lineal feet, such standards to be applicable to any property under one (1) ownership. Where such ownership involves over one hundred (100) feet of street frontage, one (1) additional two-way or two (2) additional one-way drives may be permitted for each additional one hundred (100) feet of frontage or major fraction thereof. The balance of such street frontage not involved with access ways shall be landscaped in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. ANSI A300 Standards: Industry-developed standards of practice for tree care. Acronym for American National Standards Institute. Automatic irrigation system: An irrigation system with a programmable controller or timing mechanism. Bonafide agricultural activities: Land used for the growing of food crops, nurseries for the growing of landscape material, the raising of livestock, horse farms, and other good faith agricultural uses, except any portion of the property not eligible for agricultural exemption. Buffer, perimeter landscape: An area of land which is set aside along the perimeter of a parcel of land in which landscaping is required to provide an aesthetic transition between different land uses and to eliminate or reduce the adverse environmental impact, and incompatible land use impacts. Caliper: For trees under four (4) inches in diameter, the trunk diameter measured at a height of six (6) inches above natural grade. For trees four (4) inches and greater in diameter, the trunk diameter measured at twelve (12) inches above natural grade. Clearance pruning: Pruning required to avoid damage or danger related to structures, power distribution and property, as defined in the current ANSI A300 Standards. Colonnade: A roof or building structure, extending over the sidewalk, open to the street and sidewalk, except for supporting columns or piers. Common open space: Area required as open space under Chapter 33 or municipal codes for various zoning districts. Controlled plant species: Those plant species listed in the Landscape Manual which tend to become nuisances because of their ability to invade proximal native plant communities or native habitats, but which, if located and cultivated properly may be useful or functional as elements of landscape design. Diameter at breast height (DBH): Diameter of a tree's trunk measured at a height four and one-half (4.5) feet above natural grade. In the case of multiple-trunk trees, the DBH shall mean the sum of each trunk's diameter measured at a height of four and one-half (4.5) feet above natural grade. Differential operation schedule: A method of scheduling an irrigation system to apply different quantities of water, and/or apply water at different frequencies as appropriate, for different hydrozones. Dissimilar land uses: Proximate or directly associated land uses which are contradictory, incongruous, or discordant such as higher intensity residential, commercial or industrial uses located adjacent to lower intensity uses. Drip line: An imaginary vertical line extending from the outermost horizontal circumference of a tree's branches to the ground. Duplex dwelling: A residence building designed for, or used as the separate homes or residences of two (2) separate and distinct families, but having the appearance of a single family dwelling house. Each individual unit in the duplex shall comply with the definition for a one-family dwelling. Emitters: Devices which are used to control the discharge of irrigation water from lateral pipes. Existing development: Shall mean a site with structures that were legally approved through the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy or a certificate of completion as of the effective date of this chapter. Energy conservation zone: A zone located no more than twenty-two (22) feet from a structure in a one hundred eighty (180) degree band from due east of the northeast point of the structure, to due south, to due west of the northwest point of the structure. Environmentally Endangered Lands: Lands that contain natural forest, wetland or native plant communities, rare and endangered plants and animals, endemic species, endangered species habitat, a diversity of species, outstanding geologic or other natural features, or land which functions as an integral and sustaining component of an existing ecosystem. Facultative: Plants with a similar likelihood of occurring in both wetlands and uplands, which are not recognized indicators of either wetland or upland conditions. Florida Friendly Landscaping: Practices, materials or actions developed by the Florida Yards and Neighborhood Program that help to preserve Florida's natural resources and protect the environment. Florida Yards and Neighborhood Program: Is a partnership of the University of Florida/Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, Florida's water management districts, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the National Estuary Program, the Florida Sea Grant College Program and other agencies, managed locally by the Miami-Dade Cooperative Extension Division of the Consumer Services Department. Forbs: Herbaceous plants other than grasses. Geologic feature: A natural rock or mineral formation. Graywater: That portion of domestic sewage emanating from residential showers, residential baths, residential bathroom washbasins, or residential clothes washing machines. Ground cover: A dense, extensive growth of low-growing plants, other than turfgrass, normally reaching an average maximum height of not more than twenty-four (24) inches at maturity. Hatrack: To flat-cut the top of a tree, severing the leader or leaders, or the removal of any branch three (3) inches or greater in diameter at any point other than the branch collar. Hazard pruning: The removal of dead, diseased, decayed, or obviously weak branches two (2) inches in diameter or greater. Heat island: An unnaturally high temperature microclimate resulting from radiation from unshaded impervious surfaces. Hedge: A landscape barrier consisting of a continuous, dense planting of shrubs, not necessarily of the same species. Herbaceous plant: A plant having little or no woody tissue. Hydromulch: A sprayed application of seed, mulch and water. Hydrozone: A zone in which plant material with similar water needs are grouped together. Included bark: Bark that is embedded in a crotch between a branch and trunk or between co-dominant stems, causing a weakened structure. Irrigation detail: A graphic representation depicting the materials to be used and dimensions to be met in the installation of the irrigation system. Irrigation plan: A plan drawn at the same scale as the landscape plan, indicating location and specification of irrigation system components and other relevant information as required by this chapter. Irrigation system: A system of pipes or other conduits designed to transport and distribute water to keep plants in a healthy and vigorous condition. Landscape feature: Trellis, arbor, fountain, pond, garden sculpture, garden lighting, decking, patio, decorative paving, gazebo, and other similar elements. Landscape material: Plants such as grass, ground cover, forbs, shrubs, vines, hedges, trees and non-living material such as rocks, pebbles, sand, mulch, or pervious decorative paving materials. Landscape plan: A plan indicating all landscape areas, stormwater retention/detention areas, areas which qualify to be excluded from maximum permitted lawn area, existing vegetation to be retained, proposed plant material, landscape legend, landscape features, planting specifications, and details, and all other relevant information in compliance with this chapter. Lawn area: An area planted with lawn grasses. Manual irrigation system: An irrigation system in which control valves and switches are manually operated rather than operated by automatic controls. Mixed use: A mixture of land uses such as provided in Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND), Planned Area Development (PAD), and Planned Development (PD). Moisture and rain sensor switches: Devices which have the ability to switch off an automatic irrigation controller after receiving a predetermined amount of rainfall or moisture content in the soil. Mulch: Materials customarily used in landscape design to retard erosion, weed infestation, and retain moisture and for use in planting areas. Multifamily residential development: Any residential development other than attached or detached single-family or duplex. Multiple single-family developments: Attached and detached single-family developments that are planned as a total project and not as a single family unit on a single lot. Native habitat: An area enhanced or landscaped with an appropriate mix of native tree, shrub and groundcover species that resembles a native plant community or natural forest community in structure and composition or is naturally occurring. Native plant species: Plant species with a geographic distribution indigenous to all or part of Miami-Dade County. Plants which are described as being native to Miami-Dade County in botanical manuals such as, but not limited to, "A Flora of Tropical Florida" by Long and Lakela, are native plant species within the meaning of this definition. Plant species which have been introduced into Miami-Dade County by man are not native plant species. Native plant community: A natural association of plants dominated by one (1) or more prominent native plant species, or a characteristic physical attribute. Natural Forest Community: All assemblages of vegetation designated as Natural Forest Communities on the Miami-Dade County Natural Forest Community Maps and approved by the Board of County Commissioners, pursuant to Resolution No. R-1764-84 and further defined in Section 24-5 of the Miami-Dade County Code. Net lot area: For the purpose of this chapter, net lot area shall be the area within lot boundaries of all lands comprising the site. Net lot area shall not include any portion of the abutting dedicated streets, alleys, waterways, canals, lakes or any other such dedications. One family dwelling: A private residence building used or intended to be used as a home or residence in which all living rooms are accessible to each other from within the building and in which the use and management of all sleeping quarters, all appliances for sanitation, cooking, ventilating, heating or lighting are designated for the use of one (1) family only. Overhead irrigation system: A high pressure, high volume irrigation system. Planting detial: A graphic representation of the plant installation depicting the materials to be used and dimensions to be met in the placement of plants and other landscape materials. Prohibited plant species: Those plant species listed in the Miami-Dade Landscape Manual which are demonstrably detrimental to native plants, native wildlife, ecosystems, or human health, safety, and welfare. Shrub: A self-supporting woody perennial plant normally growing to a height of twenty-four (24) inches or greater, characterized by multiple stems and branches continuous from the base. Site plan: A comprehensive plan drawn to scale indicating appropriate site elevations, roadways, and location of all relevant site improvements including structures, parking, other paved areas, ingress and egress drives, landscaped open space and signage. Specimen tree: A tree with any individual trunk which has a DBH of eighteen (18) inches or greater, but not including the following: (1)All trees listed in Section 24-49(4)(f); (2)Non-native fruit trees that are cultivated or grown for the specific purpose of producing edible fruit, including, but not limited to, mangos, avocados, or species of citrus; (3)Non-native species of the genus Ficus, and(4)All multitrunk trees in the palm family, except Acoelorrhaphe wrightii and Phoenix reclinata which have a minimum overall height of fifteen (15) feet. Spray head: An irrigation device which applies water to the soil or plant surface by fixed spray or mist nozzles. Sprinkler head: a sprinkler head that provides aboveground or overhead irrigation. Stabilized lawn area: An area of ground underlain with structural support in the form of grass pavers or stabilized soil prepared to withstand the load of intended vehicular use, such as automobiles, fire trucks and garbage trucks. Stormwater retention/detention area: An area designed, built and used for temporary storage of stormwater. For purposes of this chapter, these areas are intended to be permanently exempt from wetland regulations. Street Tree Master Plan: A greenprint for Miami-Dade County as adopted by the Board of County Commissioners on March 6, 2007 as may be amended from time to time. Tree abuse: Tree abuse shall include: (1)Damage inflicted upon any part of a tree, including the root system, by machinery, construction equipment, cambium layer penetration, storage of materials, soil compaction, excavation, chemical application or spillage, or change to the natural grade. (2)Hatracking.(3)Girdling or bark removal of more than one-third (1/3) of the tree diameter.(4)Tears and splitting of limb ends or peeling and stripping of bark resulting from improper pruning techniques not in accordance with the current ANSI A300 Standards. Tree canopy: The aerial extent of the branches and foliage of a tree as defined by the drip line. Temporary irrigation systems: A system including surface distribution elements (hose, pipe, etc.) which may be easily removed when landscape is established. Understory: The complex of woody, fibrous, herbaceous and graminoid plant species that are typically associated with a natural forest community, native plant community, or native habitat. Vegetation required to be preserved by law: Portions of a site, including but not limited to specimen trees, natural forest communities and native vegetation which are clearly delineated on site plans, plats, or recorded restrictions, or in some other legally binding manner that are to be protected from any tree or understory removal or effective destruction and maintained without any development. Vegetation survey: A drawing provided at the same scale as the landscape plan which includes relevant information as required by this chapter. Vehicular use area: A hard surface area designed or used for off-street parking and/or an area used for loading, circulation, access, storage, including fire trucks, garbage trucks, or display of motor vehicles. Vine: A plant with a flexible stem which normally requires support to reach mature form. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 09-35, § 2, 5-5-09) Sec. 18A-4. Plans required.(A) General. Landscape plan(s) shall be approved by the Department of Planning and Zoning, or by the corresponding department(s) in the municipalities, and where required pursuant to 18A-4(D), an irrigation plan shall be approved by the Building Department or by the corresponding department(s) in the municipalities, prior to the issuance of any building permit or paving for new parking areas or expansion of existing parking areas. (B) Landscape plans. (1) Owner - builder single=family or duplex dwelling: Landscape plan(s) submitted for new one (1) family or duplex dwellings may be in the form of a plot plan or drawing prepared by the owner or the owner's representative, provided however, developments, requiring site plan approval pursuant to administrative site plan review or public hearing by Chapter 33 shall meet the requirements of subsection 18A-4(B)(2) and Chapter 481, Florida Statutes. (2) All other development: The landscape plan for development other than provided for in subsection (1) above, shall be prepared by, and bear the seal of, a landscape architect licensed to practice in the State of Florida, or by persons authorized by Chapter 481, Florida Statutes, to prepare landscape plans or drawings. Preliminary landscape plans shall be provided as part of the submission for site plan approval and shall: (a)Be drawn to scale and include property boundaries, north arrow, graphic scale, and date.(b)Include a vegetation survey, including an aerial photograph which outlines the subject site, provided at the same scale as the landscape plan. (c)Delineate existing and proposed structures, parking spaces, accessways and other vehicular use areas, sidewalks, utilities, easements, height and voltage of power lines on the property or adjacent property. (d)Indicate the common and scientific name and quantity of plants to be installed using "Landscape Legend" code format as prescribed by the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning. (e)Identify all landscape features and non-living landscape materials.(f)Show all areas of vegetation required to be preserved by law, including but not limited to trees, specimen trees, native plant species, Natural Forest Communities, native habitats and wetlands. (g)Illustrate geologic, historic and archeological features to be preserved.(h)Depict stormwater retention/detention areas and areas excluded from maximum permitted lawn area.(i)Document zoning district, net lot area, required open space, and maximum permitted lawn area.(j)Show building coverage and the location and dimension of greenbelt and water areas proposed for business and industrial zones, if required by Chapter 33 (k)Complete "Preparer's Certification of Landscape Compliance." Final landscape plans submitted for permit shall include all of the above, as well as the following: (a)A fully completed, permanently affixed "Landscape Legend" as prescribed by the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning. (b)Critical layout dimensions for trees, plant beds and landscape features.(c)Method(s) to protect and relocate trees and native plant communities during construction.(d)Planting details and specifications.(e)Irrigation plans, as required by the zoning district.(f)Irrigation details and specifications, as required above.(g)Notarized "Preparer's Certification of Landscape Compliance" at time of final inspection."(C) Vegetation survey. A vegetation survey shall be provided for all sites at the same scale as the landscape plan. The vegetation survey shall be accompanied by an aerial photograph which outlines the subject site without obscuring its features. Within municipalities, surveys shall be verified by the department(s) or board(s) as deemed appropriate by the municipality. The vegetation survey shall provide the following information: (1)The accurate location and graphic representation, in relation to existing development, of all existing trees of a minimum two-inch DBH or ten-foot height or, for native trees, of a minimum one and one-half (1½) DBH or eight-foot height, including those which are proposed to be removed, relocated or preserved on site in accordance with the requirements of this Code and Section 24-60 of the Code. (2)The boundaries of any native habitat, native plant community, native plant species, and/or Natural Forest Community and associated understory that exists on site, as determined by the Department of Environmental Resources Management. (3)A table showing the following information:(a)The scientific and common name of each tree, each of which shall be numbered.(b)The diameter at breast height (DBH) of each tree, or if a multiple trunk tree, the sum DBH for all trunks.(c)An estimate of the height, canopy cover, and physical condition of each tree, and whether specimen tree(s) exist on site.(D) Irrigation plans. An irrigation plan shall be submitted if a sprinkler system is required by Chapter 33, or as required in the individual municipalities or where an irrigation system is to be provided regardless of code requirements. Where a landscape plan is required, an irrigation plan shall be submitted concurrently. (1)For a new one-family or duplex dwelling the irrigation plan may be indicated on a plot plan or a separate drawing prepared by the owner or the owner's agent indicating area(s) to be irrigated, location and specifications of lines and heads and pump specifications. (2)All other development other than those provided in a subsection (1) above shall:(a)Be drawn on a base plan at the same scale as landscape plan(s).(b)Delineate landscape areas, major landscape features, and hydrozones.(c)Delineate existing and proposed structures, parking areas or other vehicular use areas, access aisles, sidewalks, driveways, the location of utilities and easements, and similar features, (d)Include water source, design operating pressure and flow rate per zone, total volume required for typical depths of application, and application rate. (e)Include locations of pipes, controllers, valves, sprinklers, back flow prevention devices, rain switches or soil moisture sensors, and electrical supply. (f)Irrigation details. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 36, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 09-35, § 3, 5-5-09) Sec. 18A-5. Tree removal and preservation. Tree removal permits or natural forest community vegetation removal permits are required prior to the removal of trees, specimen trees, or any vegetation in a natural forest community, respectively, pursuant to Section 24-60 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. The Miami-Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management is responsible for administering and enforcing these provisions. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98) Sec. 18A-6. Minimum standards. The following standards shall be considered minimum requirements unless otherwise indicated: (A) Lawn area (turf). (1)Grass areas shall be planted in species well adopted to localized growing conditions in Miami-Dade County. Grass areas may be sodded, plugged, sprigged, hydromulched, or seeded except that solid sod shall be used in swales or other areas subject to erosion. In areas where other than solid sod or grass seed is used, overseeding shall be sown for immediate effect and protection until coverage is otherwise achieved. (2)Exclusions from maximum permitted lawn areas:(a)Stabilized grassed area used for parking;(b)Grassed areas designated on landscape plans and actively used for sports, playgrounds or picnic areas;(c)Grassed areas in the right-of-way;(d)Stormwater retention/detention areas planted in grasses which are very drought tolerant, as referenced in the Landscape Manual, as well as tolerant to wet soils. (3)Maximum permitted lawn area for all residential and mixed uses in the unincorporated area is referenced in Table A.(4)Maximum permitted lawn area for all office, commercial, and industrial uses is as referenced in Table A. Very drought tolerant grasses and low growing native plants, including grasses and forbs, as referenced in the Landscape Manual, may be used as groundcover beyond the maximum permitted grass area specified in Table A. (5)In municipalities, the maximum amount of lawn area for residential and mixed uses shall be limited to a maximum of sixty (60) percent of the landscaped open space required in the individual municipal code(s). In those residential and mixed use zoning districts where landscaped open space is not specified, lawn areas shall be restricted to a maximum of fifty (50) percent of the net lot area. Lawn areas in commercial, office and industrial zones shall be limited to a maximum of twenty (20) percent of the open space required by the individual municipalities. In those commercial, office and industrial zones, where landscaped open space is not specified, lawn area shall be restricted to a maximum of twenty (20) percent of the net lot area less the area covered by buildings. Very drought tolerant grasses and low growing native plant species, including grasses and forbs, as referenced in the Landscape Manual, may be used as groundcover beyond the maximum permitted grass area. (B) Irrigation. (1)All newly-planted and relocated plant material shall be watered by temporary or permanent irrigation systems until such time as they are established and subsequently on as-needed basis to prevent stress and die-off in compliance with existing water use restrictions. (2)Irrigation shall be prohibited within native plant communities and natural forest communities, except for temporary systems needed to establish newly planted material. Temporary irrigation systems shall be disconnected immediately after establishment of plant communities. (3)Irrigation systems shall be designed, operated and maintained to:(a)Meet the needs of all the plants in the landscape.(b)Conserve water by allowing differential operation schedules based on hydrozone.(c)Consider soil, slope and other site characteristics in order to minimize water waste, including overspray or overflow on to impervious surfaces and other non-vegetated areas, and off-site runoff. (d)Minimize free flow conditions in case of damage or other mechanical failure.(e)Use low trajectory spray heads, and/or low volume water distributing or application devices.(f)Maximize uniformity, considering factors such as:(1)Emitters types,(2)Head spacing,(3)Sprinkler pattern, and(4)Water pressure at the emitter.(g)Use the lowest quality water feasible (graywater shall be used where approved systems are available).(h)Rain switches or other devices, such as soil moisture sensors, shall be used with automatic controls. Operate only during hours and on days permitted under Chapter 32 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (i)Where feasible, drip irrigation or micro-sprinklers shall be used.(4)During dry periods, irrigation application rates of between one (1) and one and one-half (1½) inches per week are recommended for turf areas. (5)If an irrigation system is not provided, a hose bib shall be provided within seventy-five (75) feet of any landscape area.(C) Trees. (1) Tree size. All trees, except street trees, shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet high and have a minimum caliper of two (2) inches at time of planting except that thirty (30) percent of the tree requirement may be met by native species with a minimum height of eight (8) feet and a minimum caliper of one and one-half (1½) inches at time of planting. (2) Street tree size and spacing. Street trees shall be of a species typically grown in Miami-Dade County which normally mature to a height of at least twenty (20) feet. Street trees shall have a clear trunk of four (4) feet, an overall height of twelve (12) feet and a minimum caliper of two (2) inches at time of planting, and shall be provided along all roadways at a maximum average spacing of thirty-five (35) feet on center, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. Street trees are not required when a colonnade open to the public is located within four (4) feet of the edge of the roadway. The thirty-five (35) foot average spacing requirement for multiple single family units such as zero-lot-line and townhouse shall be based on the total lineal footage of roadway for the entire project and not based on individual lot widths. Street trees shall be placed within the swale area or shall be placed on private property where demonstrated to be necessary due to right-of-way obstructions as determined by the Public Works Department or the appropriate authority within the municipality. Street trees planted along private roadways shall be placed within seven (7) feet of the edge of roadway pavement and/or where present within seven (7) feet of the sidewalk. (3) Power lines. Where the height and location of overhead powerlines requires the planting of low growing trees, street trees shall have a minimum height of eight (8) feet, a minimum caliper of one and one-half (1½) inches at time of planting, and shall meet the following requirements: (a)Single trunk trees clear of lateral branches to four (4) feet and/or multitrunk trees or tree/shrubs, as referenced in the Landscape Manual, cleared of foliage to a height of four (4) feet. (b)A maximum average spacing of twenty-five (25) feet on center.(c)Maturing to a height and spread not encroaching within five (5) feet of overhead power distribution lines.(d)Under high voltage (50kV and above) transmission lines installed independent of underbuilt distribution lines, tree height and spread shall not exceed the minimum approach distances specified in the current ANSI (American National Standards Institute) Z133.1 Standards, as referenced in the Landscape Manual. (4) Palms. Palms which meet all of the following requirements shall count as a required street tree on the basis of one (1) palm per tree. (a)Minimum canopy of fifteen (15) feet at maturity.(b)Provided at an average maximum spacing of twenty-five (25) feet on center.(c)Fourteen-foot minimum overall height or minimum caliper of four (4) inches at time of planting. It is provided however that queen palms (Syagrus romanzoffiana) shall not be allowed as street trees. (5)Minimum number of trees. Within Unincorporated Miami-Dade County, the minimum number of required trees, in addition to street trees, is referenced in Table A. (6)Grassed areas that are to be used for organized sports such as football and soccer or other similar sports or playgrounds, that are clearly identified on a landscape plan shall not be counted toward calculating tree requirements. (7)Trees shall be planted to provide shade to residential structures of a height of thirty-five (35) feet or less. At least two (2) required lot trees shall be positioned in the energy conservation zone as defined herein. All exterior air conditioning units, except for air conditioning units placed on the roof, shall be shaded by trees and/or shrubs as referenced in the Landscape Manual. (8)Palms of a ten-foot minimum overall height or minimum caliper of three (3) inches at time of planting shall count as a required tree on the basis of two (2) palms-per tree, except as provided herein for palms used as of street trees. No more than thirty (30) percent of the minimum tree requirements may be met by palms. (9)Existing trees required by law to be preserved on site and that meet the requirements of Section 18A-6(C), may be counted toward fulfilling the minimum tree requirements. (10)Prohibited and controlled tree species shall not be counted toward fulfilling minimum tree requirements. Prohibited trees shall be removed from the site. (11)Of the required trees at least:(a)Thirty (30) percent shall be native species; and(b)Fifty (50) percent shall be low maintenance and drought tolerant; and(c)No more than thirty (30) percent shall be palms.(12)Eighty (80) percent of the trees shall be listed in the Miami-Dade Landscape Manual, the Miami-Dade Street Tree Master Plan and/or the University of Florida's Low-Maintenance Landscape Plants for South Florida list. (13)In order to prevent adverse environmental impacts to existing native plant communities, cabbage palms (Sabal palmetto) that are harvested from the wild shall not be used to satisfy minimum landscaping requirements. Only existing cabbage palms, which are rescued from government approved donor sites, transplanted within the site, or commercially grown from seed shall be counted towards the minimum tree and native plant requirements. (14)When trees are planted within the right-of-way, the owners of land adjacent to the areas where street trees are planted must maintain those areas including the trees, plants and sod, using pruning methods specified in this Code. A covenant executed by those owners is required, or a special taxing district must be created to maintain these areas. Where the State, County or municipality determines that the planting of trees and other landscape material is not appropriate in the public right-of-way, they may require that said trees and landscape material be placed on private property. (15)Consideration shall be given to the selection of trees, plants and planting site to avoid serious problems such as clogged sewers, cracked sidewalks, and power service interruptions. (16)Municipalities shall meet all the above requirements in the corresponding zoning districts or land use categories of the particular municipality. (D) Shrubs. (1)All shrubs shall be a minimum of eighteen (18) inches in height when measured immediately after planting. Shrubs shall be provided at ratio of ten (10) per required tree. Of the provided shrubs at least: (a)Thirty (30) percent shall be native species; and(b)Fifty (50) percent shall be low maintenance and drought tolerant; and(c)Eighty (80) percent shall be listed in the Miami-Dade Landscape Manual, the Miami-Dade Street Tree Master Plan and/or the University of Florida's Low-Maintenance Landscape Plants for South Florida list. (2)When used as a visual screen, buffer, or hedge, shrubs shall be planted at a maximum average spacing of thirty (30) inches on center or if planted at a minimum height of thirty-six (36) inches, shall have a maximum average spacing of forty-eight (48) inches on center and shall be maintained so as to form a continuous, unbroken and solid visual screen within one (1) year after time of planting. Shrubs used as a buffer, visual screen, or hedge need not be of the same species. (E) Vines. Vines shall be a minimum of twelve (12) inches in length immediately after planting and may be used in conjunction with fences, screens, or walls to meet physical barrier requirements as specified. Planting of perimeter walls with vines is recommended as a deterrent to painting of graffiti. (F) Ground covers. Ground cover plants used in lieu of grass, in whole or in part, shall be planted in such a manner as to present a finished appearance and reasonably complete coverage within one (1) year after planting. (G) Mulch. (1)Mulches shall be applied and maintained in accordance with the most recent edition of the Florida Yards and Neighborhoods Handbook titled "A Guide to Florida Friendly Landscaping" by the University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences (UF/IFAS) and available online at http://www.floridayards.org/landscape/FYN-Handbook.pdf. (2)Cypress mulch shall not be used because its harvest degrades cypress wetlands.(H) Buffers between dissimilar land uses. Where dissimilar land uses exist on adjacent properties, and where such areas will not be entirely visually screened by an intervening building or structure from abutting property, that portion of such area not so screened shall be provided with a buffer consisting of a six (6) foot wall or fence with a life expectancy of at least ten (10) years, or shrubs which normally grow to a minimum height of six (6) feet. Where chain link fencing is used, shrubs shall also be required. Shrubs used as a buffer shall be a minimum of thirty (30) inches in height at time of planting, and shall be planted at a maximum average spacing of thirty-six (36) inches on center, or a minimum of thirty-six (36) inches in height at time of planting and planted at a maximum average spacing of forty-eight (48) inches on center. Said buffer shall form a continuous screen between the dissimilar land uses within one (1) year after planting. Buffers screening dissimilar uses shall include trees planted at a maximum average spacing of thirty-five (35) feet on center within a minimum five (5) foot landscaped strip. (I) Parking lot buffers. All parking lots adjacent to a right-of-way or private street shall be screened by a continuous planting and/or three (3) foot high wall with a seven (7) foot landscaped strip incorporating said planting and/or wall on private property. Planting material at time of planting shall be either a minimum height of eighteen (18) inches with a maximum average spacing of thirty (30) inches on center, or a minimum height of thirty-six (36) inches with a maximum average spacing of forty-eight (48) inches on center. (J) Landscaped areas in parking lots. Ten (10) square feet of landscaped area per parking space shall be provided within a parking lot. In order to maximize the distribution of shade, trees shall be planted throughout the interior of the parking lot at a minimum density of one (1) tree per eighty (80) square feet of landscaped area, exclusive of parking lot buffers. Planting areas for each tree shall have a minimum width of five (5) feet, exclusive of the curb dimension, and shall be planted or covered with other landscape materials. This requirement is in addition to any applicable required open space as provided in Chapter 33 of the Code of Miami-Dade County or applicable municipal code. (K) Plant quality. (1)Plants installed pursuant to this Code shall conform to, or exceed, the minimum standards for Florida Number One as provided in the most current edition of "Grades and Standards for Nursery Plants, Part I and II," prepared by the State of Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. (2)Trees installed pursuant to this Code shall have one (1) primary vertical trunk and secondary branches free of included bark up to a height of six (6) feet above natural grade. (L) Stormwater retention/detention areas. (1)Stormwater retention/detention areas shall be designed to maximize the perimeter dimension, where feasible.(2)Stormwater retention/detention areas shall be planted throughout with native herbaceous facultative plants, with the following exceptions: (a)In areas that are designated and actively used for play and/or picnic areas, overflow parking, or sports shall be planted with grasses which are very drought tolerant, as referenced in the Landscape Manual, as well as tolerant to wet soils. (b)In areas where the minimum required stormwater retention capacity would be adversely affected.(3)The minimum required number of native herbaceous facultative plants shall be one (1) plant per square foot of retention/ detention area, including the slope. Minimum required herbaceous plant container size shall be one and one-half (1½) inches, commonly, referred to as a liner. Sprigging, seeding, plugging, hydro-mulching or sodding with native herbaceous facultative plants grown from local seed sources may be used in lieu of liners. Herbaceous plants shall be planted in such a manner as to present a finished appearance and reasonably complete coverage within one (1) year after planting. (4)Native facultative trees or shrubs may be used in lieu of native herbaceous facultative plants, provided that the minimum required stormwater retention capacity is not adversely affected. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 97-90, § 1, 6-17-97; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 09-35, § 4, 5-5-09) Sec. 18A-7. Landscape plan review criteria. In the unincorporated area all landscape plans shall be reviewed by the Department of Planning and Zoning, and where existing trees or Natural Forest Communities or Environmentally Endangered Lands are involved, the Department of Environmental Resources Management. In the case of a municipality, landscape plans shall be approved by the department(s) or board(s) as deemed appropriate within the municipality. Landscape plans shall be reviewed in accordance with the following goals and objectives and the guidelines and illustrations provided in the Landscape Manual as well as the Guide to Florida-Friendly Landscaping provided by the Florida Yards and Neighborhoods Program: (A)Landscape design shall enhance architectural features; relate structure design to the site; visually screen dissimilar uses and unsightly views; reduce noise, glare and heat gain from paved areas, major roadways and incompatible uses; strengthen important vistas and reinforce neighboring site design and architecture. (B)Existing specimen trees, native vegetation (including canopy, understory, and ground cover) and Natural Forest Communities shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible and all requirements of Section 24-49 of the Code of Miami-Dade County shall be met. Preserved Natural Forest Community areas shall be deducted from the total area used to calculate minimum landscaping requirements. Native vegetation in these Natural Forest Community areas shall not be used to satisfy minimum landscape requirements. (C)In order to conserve water, reduce maintenance, and promote plant health, plant species shall be selected and installed based on their water needs, growth rate and size, and resource inputs. Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped in hydrozones. Adequate growth area, including rooting space, based on natural mature shape and size shall be provided for all plant materials. (D)The plan shall include the use of native plant species in order to reestablish an aesthetic regional quality and take advantage of the unique diversity and adaptability of native species to the environmental conditions of South Florida. Where feasible, the re-establishment of native habitats shall be incorporated into the landscape plan. (E)Trees and shrubs shall be planted in the energy conservation zone where feasible, in order to reduce energy consumption by shading buildings and shall be used to reduce heat island effects by shading paved surfaces. (F)Street trees shall be used to shade roadways and provide visual order. Where feasible, selected species shall be used to establish a road hierarchy by defining different road types. (G)Special attention shall be given to the use of appropriate species located under, or adjacent to overhead power lines, and near native plant communities and near underground utility lines. Adequate growth area shall be provided for all plant materials. (H)Landscaping shall be designed in such a way as to provide safe and unobstructed views at intersections of roadways, driveways, recreational paths and sidewalks in accordance with Section 33-11 of the Code. (I)Historic landscapes and landscape features designated by local, State or federal governments shall be preserved. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 36, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 09-35, § 5, 5-5-09) Sec. 18A-8. Preparer's certification of landscape compliance.(A)A preparer's Certification of Landscape Compliance bearing the original letterhead of the designing firm and licensing number shall be submitted to and approved by the Department of Planning and Zoning prior to issuance of any final Certificate of Use and Occupancy or Certificate of Completion. The preparer's Certification of Landscape Compliance shall contain a statement, signed and sealed by the landscape architect or by person(s) authorized to prepare plans by Chapter 481, Florida Statutes, who prepared the approved plans, that the landscape and irrigation plans have been implemented and that all requirements of this chapter have been met. Any changes or substitutions to the approved plan shall be approved by the original designing firm prior to the implementation of said changes and substitutions. All changes or substitutions to the approved plan shall be noted on all copies. Changes and substitutions of plant material shall be of similar quality, quantity and size, as originally approved and shall be in compliance with the intent and requirements of his chapter. (B)For a new single-family, duplex residence on its own lot or applicable existing development, the owner or owner's agent may certify in writing that landscape and irrigation have been installed according to approved plan(s). (C)The Department of Planning and Zoning shall have the right to inspect all projects for compliance prior to issuance of a Certificate of Use and Occupancy or Certificate of Completion. (D)Municipalities are not required to establish a Preparer's Certification of Landscape Compliance procedure. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 36, 9-3-98) Sec. 18A-9. Committee of landscape adjustment.(A)In unincorporated Miami-Dade County, the members of the Executive Council of the Developmental Impact Committee or their designees shall constitute the Committee of Landscape Adjustment. (B)The Committee of Landscape Adjustment, upon receipt of an application for adjustment of landscaping requirements shall have the authority and duty to consider and act upon such application. The application shall be filed on forms prescribed by the County, executed and sworn to by the owner or tenant of the property concerned or by authorized agents as evidenced by written power of attorney, and accompanied by a fee for processing of the application, as provided by Administrative Order. (C)In the application, the applicant shall state clearly and in detail what adjustment of landscaping requirements are being requested and the reasons such adjustments are warranted, and shall accompany the application with such supplementary data, such as sketches, surveys and statistical information as is deemed necessary to substantiate the adjustment. (D)The Committee of Landscape Adjustment may approve, modify or deny the requested adjustment, but shall approve or modify such request only if it determines that approval of any adjustment would not be contrary to the public interest and would be in keeping with and would preserve the intent of this chapter. The Committee of Landscape Adjustment shall not consider requests for variance from the requirements of Chapter 24, the Miami-Dade County Environmental Protection Code, including specimen tree and natural forest community variance requests. Any such requests shall be made according to the provisions of Sections 24-48 and 24-49 of the Code. Additionally, the Committee of Landscape Adjustment shall not have authority to modify or adjust any part of Chapter 33 of the Miami-Dade County Code. (E)Committee of Landscape Adjustment shall meet on a regular basis to act on pending application(s), and shall post their decision in the form of a short, concise statement of the action taken on a conspicuous bulletin board that may be seen by the public at reasonable times and hours in the office of the Department of Planning and Zoning. (F)Within fourteen (14) days after posting of decision, but not thereafter, any decision of the Committee of Landscape Adjustment may be appealed to the appropriate Community Zoning Appeals Board as prescribed in Chapter 33 for appeals of administrative decisions; otherwise, it shall become final. (G)The Community Zoning Appeals Boards or the Board of County Commissioners shall have the authority to grant adjustment from this chapter as part of a zoning application. (H)Each municipality may establish or assign an existing board, committee, or other similar body to review adjustments and to establish criteria for landscape adjustment. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 97-16, § 1, 2-25-97; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 36, 9-3-98) Sec. 18A-10. Landscape Manual. The Department of Planning and Zoning, in cooperation with other County departments shall prepare a landscape manual and make the same available to the public. The landscape manual shall be adopted by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. Said manual shall provide an illustrative interpretation of the standards provided herein and suggested guides for landscaping in accordance with the above standards. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 36, 9-3-98) Sec. 18A-11. Landscape maintenance.(A)An owner is responsible to ensure that landscaping required to be planted pursuant to this chapter, or the ordinances which were in effect prior to the effective date of this chapter, is: (1)Installed in compliance with the Landscape requirements;(2)Maintained as to present a healthy, vigorous, and neat appearance free from refuse and debris; and(3)Sufficiently fertilized and watered to maintain the plant material in a healthy condition.(B)If any tree or plant dies which is being used to satisfy current landscape code requirements, such tree or plant shall be replaced with the same landscape material or an approved substitute. (C)Trees shall be pruned in the following manner:(1)All cuts shall be clean, flush and at junctions, laterals or crotches. All cuts shall be made as close as possible to the trunk or parent limb, without cutting into the branch collar or leaving a protruding stub. (2)Removal of dead wood, crossing branches, weak or insignificant branches, and sucker shall be accomplished simultaneously with any reduction in crown. (3)Cutting of lateral branches that results in the removal of more than one-third (1/3) of all branches on one (1) side of a tree shall only be allowed if required for hazard reduction or clearance pruning.(4)Lifting of branches or tree thinning shall be designed to distribute over half of the tree mass in the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the tree.(5)No more than one-third (1/3) of a tree's living canopy shall be removed within a one (1) year period.(6)Trees shall be pruned according to the current ANSI A300 Standards and the Landscape Manual. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98) Sec. 18A-12. Prohibitions.(A) Prohibited plant species. Prohibited species shall not be planted and shall be removed from any site which is subject to the requirements of this chapter. (B) Controlled plant species. Controlled species shall not be planted within five hundred (500) feet of a Natural Forest Community or native habitats as defined herein. (C) West Indian Mahogany. West Indian Mahogany, Swietenia mahagoni, shall not be planted within five hundred (500) feet of a rockland hammock or pine rockland. (D) Tree abuse. Tree abuse is prohibited. Abused trees shall not be counted toward fulfilling the minimum tree requirements. (Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98) Sec. 18A-13. Enforcement.(A)Except during Emergency Phase II and Phase III water restriction periods imposed by the South Florida Water Management District (the "District") as set forth below, the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning shall withhold approval of a final building inspection prior to the issuance of a Final Certificate of Use and Occupancy or Certificate of Completion until a Preparer's Certification of Landscape Compliance has been submitted and approved. During Emergency Phase II and Phase III water restriction periods imposed by the District, and subject to written consent by contract purchasers of individual houses or units, the Department is hereby authorized to issue Certificates of Completion and Certificates of Use and Occupancy for residential uses only, without the installation of the plant and tree components of the required landscaping, including right-of-way and street trees, and without the required watering of such landscaping, as needed. However, the landscaping requirements for grass and irrigation must be complied with as set forth in this Chapter. The Landscape Architect on the project shall provide to the Department a good faith written estimate of the installed cost of the required landscaping not being provided on the property because of the restrictions. In order to assure the Department that the required landscaping shall be planted within ninety (90) days after the Emergency Phase II or Phase III Water Restrictions are ended by the District, a Performance and Payment Bond in an amount equal to one hundred and ten (110) percent of the estimated cost of such landscaping shall be provided by the Contractor or owner-builder to the Department prior to the issuance of any Certificate of Completion or Certificate of Use and Occupancy. For the purposes of this subsection, the term contractor is defined as any person, firm, joint venture or corporation indicated on the official permit records of the Building Department as the primary contractor and/or primary landscaping contractor for the project. An owner/builder is additionally considered to be a contractor. Additionally, the contract purchaser for any individual house or unit must covenant in writing that after the Emergency Phase II and Phase III Water Restrictions are ended by the District, that such contract purchaser (who may then be an owner) will not interfere with or refuse to allow the installation of the required landscaping. (B)The Department of Planning and Zoning shall have the right to inspect the lands affected by this Code. Team Metro is authorized to issue cease and desist orders and citations to the current owner and the Contractor, if applicable, for violations. (C)Failure to install or maintain landscaping according to the terms of this chapter shall constitute a violation of this Code. Also, failure to plant, preserve, or maintain each individual tree shall be considered to be a separate violation of this Code. Each day in which either landscaping or individual trees are not installed or maintained according to the terms of this chapter shall constitute a continuing and separate violation of this Code. Further, failure by the current owner or the Contractor to provide the required landscaping and watering of such landscaping within ninety (90) days after the South Florida Water Management District ends the emergency Phase II and Phase III water restrictions shall constitute a violation of this Code. (D)In the municipalities, enforcement shall be performed by the Department within the municipality as may be deemed appropriate by the municipality, and in the event the provisions hereof are not enforced within the municipality, the County shall enforce same. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 36, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 02-36, § 1, 2-26-02) Sec. 18A-14. Conflicts with other ordinances or regulations. If this chapter conflicts with other ordinances or regulations, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern or prevail to the extent of the conflict. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 2, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-13-98) Editor's note— Ord. No. 98-13, §§ 1, 2, adopted January 13, 1998, renumbered § 18A-13 as § 18A-14 and repealed § 18A-14 which pertained to sunset provisions and derived from Ord. No. 95-222, § 4, 12-5-95. Sec. 18A-15. Effective date. This chapter shall become effective seventy (70) days after the date of enactment provided however this chapter shall not apply to projects for which prior to the effective date of this chapter: (1)An application for a building permit has been filed;(2)A building permit has been issued and is in effect;(3)The Zoning Appeals Board, Community Zoning Appeals Board, or Board of County Commissioners has by resolution approved a project site plan; (4)A site plan which has received administrative site plan approval; or(5)A zoning application has been filed prior to March 11, 1998 that includes detailed site and landscape plans. (Ord. No. 95-222, § 6, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-13, § 5, 1-13-98) Editor's note— Provisions enacted by § 6 of Ord. No. 95-222 have been included herein at the discretion of the editor as § 18A-15, under the authority of § 5 of said ordinance.

,Chapter 18B MIAMI-DADE COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE

Sec. 18B-1. Short title and applicability.Sec. 18B-2. Purpose and intent.Sec. 18B-3. Definitions.Sec. 18B-4. Minimum standards.Sec. 18B-1. Short title and applicability.(A) Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Miami-Dade County Right-of-Way Landscape Ordinance". (B) Applicability. This chapter shall be a minimum standard and shall apply to all public rights-of-way both in the incorporated and unincorporated areas except for zoned or dedicated rights-of-way adjacent to lands being used for bona fide agricultural activities as defined in Chapter 18A of this Code. Enforcement in the unincorporated area shall be by the County and in the incorporated areas by the municipalities; provided, any municipality may establish and enforce more stringent regulations as such municipality may deem necessary. In the event the provisions hereof are not enforced within any municipality, the County shall enforce same. (Ord. No. 09-36, § 1, 5-5-09) Sec. 18B-2. Purpose and intent. It is the intent of this chapter to establish minimum landscape standards for public rights-of-way in incorporated and unincorporated Miami-Dade County that enhance, improve and maintain the quality of the landscape, and to: (A)Promote Florida friendly principles through the use of drought-tolerant landscape species, grouping of plant material by water requirements, the use of irrigation systems that conserve the use of potable and nonpotable water supplies and restrictions on the amount of lawn areas. (B)Use landscape material, specifically street trees, to visually define the hierarchy of roadways, and to provide shade and a visual edge along roadways. (C)Prevent the destruction of the community's existing tree canopy and promote its expansion.(D)Provide for the preservation of existing natural forest communities and specimen sized trees in conformance with Section 24-49, as may be amended from time to time; re-establish native habitat where appropriate, and encourage the appropriate use of native plant material in the landscape. (E)Promote the use of trees and shrubs for energy conservation by encouraging cooling through the provision of shade and the channeling of breezes, thereby helping to offset global warming and local heat island effects through the added absorption of carbon dioxide and reduction of heat islands. (F)Contribute to the processes of air movement, air purification, oxygen regeneration, ground water recharge, and retention of stormwater runoff, as well as aiding in the abatement of noise, glare, heat, air pollution and dust generated by major roadways and intense use areas. (G)Reduce the negative impacts of exotic pest plant species and prohibit the use of noxious exotic plants which invade native plant communities. (H)Promote the use of trees to protect and buffer the effects of high winds on structures.(I)Promote the concept of planting the right tree or plant in the right place to avoid problems such as clogged sewers, cracked sidewalk and power services interruptions. (Ord. No. 09-36, § 1, 5-5-09) Sec. 18B-3. Definitions. The definitions contained in Chapters 18A, Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, shall apply to this chapter. (Ord. No. 09-36, § 1, 5-5-09) Sec. 18B-4. Minimum standards.(A) Irrigation. (1)All newly-planted and relocated plant material shall be watered by temporary or permanent irrigation systems until such time as they are established and subsequently on as needed basis to prevent stress and die-off in compliance with existing water use restrictions. (2)Irrigation systems shall be prohibited within native plant communities and natural forest communities, except for temporary systems needed to establish newly planted material. Temporary irrigation systems shall be disconnected immediately after establishment of plant communities. (3)Irrigation systems shall be designed, operated and maintained to:(a)Meet the needs of the plants in the landscape.(b)Conserve water by allowing differential operation schedules based on hydrozone.(c)Consider soil, slope and other site characteristics in order to minimize water waste, including overspray or overflow on to impervious surfaces and other non-vegetated areas, and off-site runoff. (d)Minimize free flow conditions in case of damage or other mechanical failure.(e)Use low trajectory spray heads, and/or low volume water distributing or application devices.(f)Maximize uniformity, considering factors such as:1.Emitters types,2.Head spacing,3.Sprinkler pattern, and4.Water pressure at the emitter.(g)Use the lowest quality water feasible (graywater shall be used where approved systems are available).(h)Rain switches or other devices, such as soil moisture sensors, shall be used with automatic controls.(i)Operate only during hours and on days permitted under Chapter 32 of this Code. (j)Where feasible, drip irrigation or micro-sprinklers shall be used.(4)During dry periods, irrigation application rates of between one (1) and one and one-half (1½) inches per week are recommended for turf areas. (B) Plant material and mulch. (1)At least fifty (50) percent of the plant material shall be low maintenance and drought tolerant. Canopy trees are preferred where conditions are appropriate. (2)Eighty (80) percent of the plant material shall be listed in the Miami-Dade Landscape Manual, the Miami-Dade Street Tree Master Plan and/or the University of Florida's Low-Maintenance Landscape Plants for South Florida list. (3)Right-of-way landscaping shall include the use of native plant species in order to re-establish an aesthetic regional quality and take advantage of the unique diversity and adaptability of native species to the environmental conditions of South Florida. (4)Where feasible, the re-establishment of native habitats shall be incorporated into the landscaping.(5)Existing specimen trees, native vegetation (including canopy, understory, and ground cover) and Natural Forest Communities shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible and all requirements of Section 24-49 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (6)In order to conserve water, reduce maintenance, and promote plant health, plant species shall be selected and installed based on their water needs, growth rate and size, and resource inputs. Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped in hydrozones. Adequate growth area (including rooting space), based on natural mature shape and size shall be provided for all plant materials. (7)Trees and shrubs shall be planted in the energy conservation zone where feasible, in order to reduce energy consumption by shading buildings and other structures and shall be used to reduce heat island effects by shading paved surfaces. (8)Street trees shall be used to shade roadways and provide visual order. Where feasible, selected species shall be used to establish a road hierarchy by defining different road types. (9)Prohibited trees shall be removed.(10)Special attention shall be given to the use of appropriate species located under, or adjacent to overhead power lines, and near native plant communities and near underground utility lines. Adequate growth area shall be provided for all plant materials. (11)Landscaping shall be designed in such a way as to provide safe and unobstructed views at intersections of roadways, driveways, recreational paths and sidewalks in accordance with Section 33-11 of the Code of Miami-Dade County and in compliance with federal and state standards. (12)Historic landscapes and landscape features designated by local, State or federal governments shall be preserved.(13)Mulches shall be applied and maintained in accordance with the most recent edition of the Florida Yards and Neighborhoods Handbook titled "A Guide to Florida Friendly Landscaping" by the University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences (UF/IFAS) and available online at http://www.floridayards.org/landscape/FYN-Handbook.pdf. (14)Cypress mulch shall not be used because its harvest degrades cypress wetlands. (Ord. No. 09-36, § 1, 5-5-09)

,Chapter 19 RESPONSIBLE PROPERTY OWNER AND MERCHANT ACT [1]

Sec. 19-1. Short title; application of chapter.Sec. 19-2. Declaration of legislative intent.Sec. 19-3. Definitions.Sec. 19-4. Responsibility for compliance.Sec. 19-4.1. Unimproved subdivided lots; Method of enforcement.Sec. 19-4.2. Failure to Comply; Penalties.Sec. 19-4.3. Penalties Are Cumulative in Nature.Sec. 19-4.4. Appellate Procedures for Civil Penalty—First-Time Violator; Time for correction.Sec. 19-4.5. Appellate Procedures for Civil Penalty—Repeat Violator; Time for Correction.Sec. 19-4.6. Time for Correction Upon Finding of Guilt.Sec. 19-4.7. County's Authority to Abate Public Nuisance.Sec. 19-4.7.1. County's Authority to Abate Public Nuisance Emergency.Sec. 19-4.8. Assistance of Miami-Dade Police Department in enforcement.Sec. 19-4.9. Obstructing enforcement officer in the performance of duties.Sec. 19-5. Collection of Enforcement and Remediation Costs.Sec. 19-6. Team Metro Director; Enforcement Power and Duties.Sec. 19-7. Reserved.Sec. 19-8. Storing junk or trash; depositing junk; characteristics of junk property; application to all zoning districts; prohibition of junk yards in residential districts; prohibition on expansion of existing junkyards in nonresidential districts.Sec. 19-9. Solid waste disposal.Sec. 19-10. Flammable rubbish.Sec. 19-11. Construction materials on premises before permit issued; removal of materials.Sec. 19-12. Abandoned property on public property.Sec. 19-13. Maintenance of Lots in Residential-Zoned Districts.Sec. 19-14. Maintenance Standards for Lots in Non-Residential Zoned Districts.Sec. 19-15. Maintenance of Business and Commercial Premises.Sec. 19-15.1. Owner Responsibility for Compliance.Sec. 19-15.2. Compliance with this Section.Sec. 19-15.3. Parking and paved areas.Sec. 19-15.4. Parking Lot Repairs Require a Permit.Sec. 19-15.5. Bicycle Racks and Litter Containers; Anti-littering Signage and Right-of-way and Overall Cleanliness of premises; Compliance with Site Plan Requirements.Sec. 19-15.6. Premises lighting.Sec. 19-15.7. Maintenance of Informational or Directional Signs.Sec. 19-15.8. General Maintenance of Signs.Sec. 19-15.9. Premises Entrance and Egress; Exterior Pedestrian Walkways, Parking Lots, Green Areas And Public Rights-Of-Way.Sec. 19-15.10. Exterior Building Surfaces.Sec. 19-15.11. Maintenance of Masonry Walls, Fences, Landscape Buffers and Entrance FeaturesSec. 19-15.12. Prohibited Display of Vehicles for Sale or as Advertising Devices.Sec. 19-1. Short title; application of chapter. This chapter shall be known as the Responsible Property Owner and Merchant Act and shall be applicable as the minimum standard in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-2. Declaration of legislative intent. The Board finds and determines that the neglect of property by property owners and the rapid, continuous growth and urban development of the unincorporated areas of this County require the reasonable and effective control and regulation of excessive growth and accumulation of weeds, and other certain plant life to the extent and in such manner as to cause infestation by rodents and feral animals, the breeding of mosquitoes and vermin, or to threaten or endanger the public health, or otherwise adversely affect the welfare of adjacent property or occupants. Further, the Board finds and determines that the accumulation of garbage and trash in violation of Chapter 15, Miami-Dade County Code requires reasonable and effective controls to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the community. Further, the Board finds that the maintenance of exterior premises of all improved property serves a public purpose in keeping property operating in a safe, sanitary and litter-free manner to prevent neighborhood blight and the deterioration of neighborhood character which, if unchecked, would have deleterious effect on the quality of life and the economic vitality of Miami-Dade County. That portion of any lot or parcel is exempt from the vegetative provisions of this chapter where that lot, or parcel is designated as a Natural Forest Community, Environmental Endangered Land, Native Plant Community, Native Habitat, or a wetland as defined and described in Section 24-3(151) of the Code of Miami-Dade County or is owned by a governmental agency or not for profit company and is held, owned or maintained as a natural area. That portion of any lot or parcel that currently has a bona fide agricultural use or has been given a State exemption for Agricultural Classification following generally accepted agricultural and management practices shall be processed in accordance with Sections 19-13 and 19-14 of this Chapter. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 11-100, § 1, 12-6-11) Sec. 19-3. Definitions.(A) Abandoned property. This term shall relate to articles of personalty, including without limitation: motor vehicles; trailers; boats or other vessels; refrigerators, washing and drying machines, or other machinery; and plumbing fixtures. The following criteria shall be considered in determining whether property has been abandoned, but no single criterion shall be conclusive: (1)Whether it has value other than nominal salvage value.(2)Whether it is in sufficient repair to perform its intended purpose.(a)Evidence of disrepair shall include missing, removed, or partially or completely dismantled parts; broken glass; or other signs of substantial deterioration. (b)In making evaluations under this subsection, the compliance officer may require the owner to demonstrate the operability of the article. (c)With regard to motor vehicles, trailers, or boats or other vessels, absence of a current license tag, decal, registration or inspection decal shall also be considered evidence under this subsection. (3)Evidence that the personalty was involved in a collision or other incident during which it was physically damaged and that it has not been repaired. (4)Evidence that the personalty has been left unprotected from the elements, including without limitation: growth of vegetation around the personalty; rust or other corrosion; the positioning of the personalty in other than an upright or operable manner; and vandalism. (5)Evidence that the article has not moved from its present location and position and no repair activity has taken place over a 72-hour period, including evidence that one or more tires have been raised from the ground on jacks, blocks, lifts, or other structures. Abandoned property shall also be deemed "junk" within the meaning of this chapter. (AA) Advertising device. A machine or other device used to attract public attention to a product or business. (B) Bona fide agricultural use. All ongoing conditions or activities by an owner, lessee, agent, independent contractor or supplier which occur on a farm in connection with the production of farm products and includes, but is not limited to, the marketing of produce at legally permitted roadside stands or farm markets; the operation of machinery and irrigation pumps; the generation of noise, odors, dust and fumes; ground or aerial seeding and spraying; the application of chemical fertilizers, conditioners, insecticides, pesticides, and herbicides; and the employment and use of labor. Examples of uses falling within this definition include, but are not limited to: fruit crops; row crops; live stock; horse boarding and breeding; pasture, both improved or semi-improved, or native pasture; nursery, either in-ground or above ground, or tree nursery, or ornamental nursery; and poultry, fish, rabbits, goats, sheep, worms, bees, hay, or tropical groves. (C) Business or Commercial Premises. Within any parcel of land approved for non-residential uses, any vacant or occupied structure and accessory structure thereof and the parcel of land upon which it is located. (D) Corrective or maintenance action. An owner is required to maintain, mow, cut, trim or bulldoze his or her lot, and clear, remove and legally dispose of all associated abandoned property, solid waste litter or junk. (E) Department. Team Metro. (F) Director. The Director of Team Metro or his or her designee. (G) Generally accepted agricultural and management practices. Shall be determined by the appropriate agricultural agency for the commercial agricultural practice utilizing Florida Statute 823.14 as the basis of its determination. (H) Government lot. The irregular lots or tracts established in the original surveys of Florida under the direction of the United States Government and shown on the official U.S. Government survey maps. The Government lots define, for conveyance purposes, those irregular parcels of land which do not fit into the normal Government-mandated sectionalized land breakdown system, including fractional sections abutting water boundaries, oversized sections, and undersized sections having hiatus and overlaps. (I) Improved lot. Any lot with a building or an erected structure or an incomplete or partially demolished structure. (J) Junk. Trash or abandoned property. (1)Junk shall include, without limitation: old and dilapidated motor vehicles, trailers, boats or other vessels and parts thereof, household appliances, scrap, building material, scrap contractor's equipment, tanks, casks, cans, barrels, boxes, drums, piping, bottles, glass, old iron, machinery, rags, paper, excelsior, mattresses, beds, bedding, or any other kind of waste material. (2)Personalty in a structure enclosed by four walls and a roof, such as a garage or utility shed shall not be construed as junk.(K) Lot. Any tract or parcel of land shown on a recorded plat or on the official County zoning maps or any piece of land described by a legal recorded deed. A lot may be improved or unimproved. (KK) Open-Air Storage. Placement of an article in an area other than in a structure enclosed by four walls and a roof, such as a garage or utility shed, that conceals it from public view shall be deemed to be open-air storage. Placement of an article under a carport or front porch that is not so enclosed shall be considered open-air storage. (L) Non-residential Zoned District. Any zoning district that permits, as a matter of right, retail, commercial, industrial or manufacturing uses. (M) Owner. Any and all persons with legal and/or equitable title to real property in Miami-Dade County, as their names and addresses are shown upon the record of the Property Appraiser Department. (N) Repeat Violator. Any property owner who has failed to comply with any portion of this chapter within the last twenty-four (24) months, or has been either found guilty of said violation by a Hearing Officer at an 8CC Hearing and such finding was not overturned by the Circuit Court, or did not file for an appeal of such violation before an 8CC Hearing Officer within seven (7) calendar days from posting of the citation. (O) Residential Premises. Within any parcel of land approved for residential zoned district, any vacant or occupied structure and accessory structure thereof and the parcel of land upon which it is located. (P) Right-of-way. Construed throughout this section to include, without limitation, all proposed dedications of public rights-of-way set forth on official grading and drainage plans required to accompany approved and valid tentative plats, as well as all existing or dedicated rights-of-way. (Q) Solid waste. Garbage, trash, yard trash (except for compost piles), litter, cuttings from vegetation, refuse, paper, bottles, rags, hazardous waste, construction and demolition debris, industrial waste, or other discarded materials, including material or containers from domestic, commercial or agricultural operations, as defined in Chapter 15, Dade County Code. (R) Structure. Anything constructed or erected the use of which requires rigid location on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground, including buildings, walls, fences, signs, light stands, towers, tanks, etc. (S) Unimproved lot. Any vacant lot or any lot without a structure. (T) Vacant Land. Any parcel of land, whether divided or undivided, upon which there are no structures. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 1, 5-11-04) Sec. 19-4. Responsibility for compliance. It is the responsibility of each owner to maintain their property in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. Where applicable, tenants or lessees shall receive enforcement notices in connection with enforcement; however, the owner is ultimately responsible for compliance with this chapter. The holder and/or owner of any mortgage which is upon real property which is in violation of this chapter shall be a responsible party for compliance with this chapter upon the filing of a lis pendens and/or an action, the purpose of which is to foreclose upon the mortgage or similar instrument that secures debt upon the real property. The responsibility for compliance with this chapter of a mortgage owner/holder shall be effective, in the case of a single-family residential unit, only during periods of time that the residential unit shall be vacant and in foreclosure. In all instances, the responsibility of a holder/owner of a mortgage shall remain until such time as the property is sold or transferred to a new owner, or the foreclosure action described herein is dismissed. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 08-134, § 1, 12-2-08) Sec. 19-4.1. Unimproved subdivided lots; Method of enforcement. In cases where the compliance officer finds two or more contiguous lots within the same subdivision and under the same ownership, the lots shall be consolidated as one single enforcement action for the purposes of imposing civil penalties. Nothing in this subsection shall exempt the property owner from meeting the compliance standards or from paying the cumulative costs of enforcement and remediation for all of the lots. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-4.2. Failure to Comply; Penalties. Except as otherwise specifically provided, the County shall issue a warning notice the first time a property owner is cited for a violation of this Chapter, and shall provide the property owner, or other responsible party, a reasonable time to come into compliance before the County pursues further enforcement procedures. Thereafter, the County shall have the option to enforce this Chapter as follows: (A)Issuance of civil penalties under Chapter 8CC (B)Petition for injunctive relief in the Circuit Court;(C)Filing of criminal charges; Penalties of this chapter are punishable by 60 days in jail or a fine of $500 per offense. Except as otherwise stated in this Chapter, the Director of Team Metro shall have the authority to determine the enforcement procedures for each subsection of this Chapter. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 08-134, § 2, 12-2-08) Sec. 19-4.3. Penalties Are Cumulative in Nature. Each incidence of violation shall constitute a separate offense. Any action taken pursuant to this chapter in regard to the disposal, abatement or removal of any nuisance condition shall be considered cumulative and in addition to penalties and other remedies provided elsewhere in this Code. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-4.4. Appellate Procedures for Civil Penalty—First-Time Violator; Time for correction. For first-time violators receiving a civil violation notice, the owner, or other responsible party, shall have fourteen (14) calendar days from service of the notice pursuant to Miami-Dade County Code section 8CC-3(c) to correct the violation, or seven (7) calendar days from service to file for an appeal. The appeal shall be in the manner described within the Uniform Civil Violation Notice. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 08-134, § 3, 12-2-08) Sec. 19-4.5. Appellate Procedures for Civil Penalty—Repeat Violator; Time for Correction. A repeat violator shall be given seven (7) calendar days from service of the civil violation notice pursuant to Miami-Dade County Code Sec. 8CC-3(e) to correct the violation, or to file for an appeal. The appeal shall be in the manner described within the Uniform Civil Violation Notice. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-4.6. Time for Correction Upon Finding of Guilt. If the owner, or other responsible party, is found guilty by the Hearing Officer, the Hearing Officer shall set a compliance date that shall not exceed 14 days beyond the date of the finding of guilt. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 08-134, § 4, 12-2-08) Sec. 19-4.7. County's Authority to Abate Public Nuisance. Failure to comply with or appeal the terms of this Chapter shall constitute a continuing public nuisance. The Director shall then have the authority to promptly abate the public nuisance, in whole or in part, at the expense of the owner, or other responsible party. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 08-134, § 5, 12-2-08) Sec. 19-4.7.1. County's Authority to Abate Public Nuisance Emergency. The Director shall have the authority to promptly abate a public nuisance that poses an immediate risk to the health, safety, and welfare of pedestrians, young children, and the general public, regardless of whether notice of the violation has been previously provided to the owner. Examples of such nuisances include, without limitation, abandoned property that is within a 1,500 foot radius surrounding schools, parks or Public Housing property. The Director shall have the authority to order the immediate removal of the abandoned property. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 07-64, § 1, 5-8-07) Sec. 19-4.8. Assistance of Miami-Dade Police Department in enforcement. If the enforcement officer is unable to successfully remove any property subject to seizure or removal under this Chapter, the enforcement officer or his designated representatives may secure the assistance of the Miami-Dade Police Department to effect the removal of the property. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-4.9. Obstructing enforcement officer in the performance of duties. Whoever opposes, obstructs or resists the enforcement officer or other person authorized by the enforcement officer in the discharge of his duty as provided in this Chapter, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree and shall be subject to punishment as provided by law. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-5. Collection of Enforcement and Remediation Costs. The Director shall certify the expense incurred in remedying a public nuisance under section 19-4.7 of this Chapter, including advertising, clearing, hauling, disposal and other expenses, together with an administrative fee as authorized in the Department's administrative fee schedule. The owner, or other responsible party, shall pay the cost within thirty (30) days. If the owner, or other responsible party, fails to pay the costs, the Director shall place a special assessment lien against the lot for the total amount due. Such a lien shall accrue interest at the legal rate from the date of certification until it is paid. The Director shall keep among his records the documentation relating to the amount payable for liens against lots remedied by the County. A special assessment lien shall be enforceable in the same manner as a tax lien in favor of Miami-Dade County and may be satisfied at any time by payment thereof, including accrued interest. Upon payment the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall, by appropriate means, evidence the satisfaction and cancellation of such lien upon the record thereof. Notice of a special assessment lien may be filed in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and recorded among the public records of Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 08-134, § 6, 12-2-08) Sec. 19-6. Team Metro Director; Enforcement Power and Duties. The Director shall be responsible for the enforcement of this Chapter and shall have the authority to amend and modify the administration of the Department's operating procedures to carry out this Chapter. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-7. Reserved.Sec. 19-8. Storing junk or trash; depositing junk; characteristics of junk property; application to all zoning districts; prohibition of junk yards in residential districts; prohibition on expansion of existing junkyards in nonresidential districts.(A)Notwithstanding the maintenance schedules in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to deposit, store, or maintain, or to permit to be deposited, stored, or maintained, junk as defined in Sec. 19.3(J) of this Code, in or on any lot, parcel or tract of land or body of water in any zoning district, except within a legally established junkyard. The deposit of junk in a location authorized for waste collection is exempted from this section, provided the junk is not or does not become a nuisance, and provided the junk is collected by Miami-Dade County or a County-authorized commercial waste collector. (B)Pursuant to Miami-Dade County Code Sec. 33-15, no junkyard shall be permitted in a residential district. (C)Junk property which would be visible, at ground level, from a street or other public or private property but for the concealment of such junk property behind a wall, fence, hedge or other plant material or by the use of a vehicle cover, plastics, fabrics or other materials to form a tent, curtain partition or similar makeshift structure or device, shall be subject to this section. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 2, 5-11-04) Sec. 19-9. Solid waste disposal. The depositing, storage, keeping, maintaining or disposal of Solid Waste on any lot shall conform to the provisions set forth in Chapter 15 of the Miami-Dade County Code. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-10. Flammable rubbish. Waste paper, boxes, shavings, rubbish or other flammable materials, shall not be allowed to accumulate on any lots. Brush, wood, and other flammable material shall not be allowed within fifty (50) feet of containers of gas, gasoline, dynamite or other highly flammable or explosive materials. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-11. Construction materials on premises before permit issued; removal of materials. Construction materials and equipment shall not be deposited on any lot in any zoning district prior to the obtaining of a building permit. Surplus materials and construction equipment shall be removed from the premises before occupancy of the completed structure is approved and shall be removed even if the job is abandoned or the permit lapses. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 3, 5-11-04) Sec. 19-12. Abandoned property on public property.(A)Whenever the enforcement officer ascertains that abandoned property is present on public property, the officer shall place a notice upon the abandoned property in substantially the following form: NOTICE TO THE OWNER OR THEAUTHORIZED AGENT OF THE OWNEROF THE ATTACHED PROPERTY This property (setting forth brief description) is unlawfully upon public property known as (setting forth brief description of location) and shall be removed within five (5) days from the date of this notice; otherwise a civil violation shall be issued and it shall be presumed to be abandoned property and shall be removed and destroyed by order of Miami-Dade County at owner's expense. You may within five (5) days from the date of this notice, request an opportunity to show cause for your failure to remove this property by writing to the Team Metro Director, 111 N.W. First Street, Miami, Florida 33128. Dated this: (setting forth the date of posting of notice) Signed: (setting forth name, title, address and telephone number of enforcement officer) Such notice shall be not less than eight (8) inches by ten (10) inches and shall be sufficiently weatherproof to withstand normal exposure to the elements. In addition, at the time of posting, the enforcement officer shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the name and address of the last owner of said personalty. If the name and address is obtained by the officer, he shall mail, via certified mail, a copy of such notice to the last owner. (B)If, at the end of five (5) days after posting such notice, or, in the case where notice is mailed, five (5) days after mailing, the owner or the authorized agent of the owner of the abandoned article or articles described in such notice has not removed the article or articles from public property or requested an opportunity to show reasonable cause for failure to do so, the enforcement officer shall issue a civil citation and may cause the article or articles of abandoned property to be removed and destroyed, and the salvage value, if any, of such articles or articles may be retained by the county to be applied against the cost of removal and destruction thereof. (C)Reasonable cause under this subsection shall be determined by the Director at a hearing on the matter if requested in writing by the owner within five (5) days after notice has been posted on the article or mailed to the last owner, whichever is later. The request shall make reference to the number on the notice which was posted on the personalty. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures set forth in Chapter 8CC of the Code of Miami-Dade County, except that written request for the hearing shall be made within the time herein set forth. (D)If reasonable cause for failure to remove the article has been demonstrated, the article shall not be subject to removal and destruction as abandoned property. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-24, § 2, 2-3-04; Ord. No. 04-90, § 4, 5-11-04) Sec. 19-13. Maintenance of Lots in Residential-Zoned Districts.(A)In accordance with Section 19-14, it shall be the responsibility of the responsible party for any lot in a residential-zoned district that is within 330 feet of a residential structure to regularly maintain their property to prevent the following: (1)Storage or maintenance of junk, trash, abandoned property or solid waste on any lot;(2)The growth or accumulation of any grass, weeds, non-native undergrowth or other dead plant life that exceeds the height of twelve (12) inches from the ground for more than ten (10) percent of the area to be maintained; (B)It shall be the responsibility of the responsible party for property in a residential-zoned district and adjacent to a County right-of-way to maintain the swale area which abuts their property. (C) Agricultural use within residential districts. When concerns or complaints are raised about agricultural use properties, a compliance officer shall investigate. If the concern or complaint is deemed to be valid, a notice of evaluation shall be issued to the property owner or lessee. The property owner or lessee shall be given thirty (30) days from the date of such notice to correct the use or practice. If clarification of the use or practice is needed, an appropriate agricultural agency shall be consulted for information. If the property owner or lessee fails to correct the condition, enforcement action shall commence to require compliance with this code. (D)Open-air storage in residential-zoned districts is subject to the following provisions:(1)Open-air storage of the following materials is prohibited:(a)Junk, as defined in this Chapter.(b)Merchandise or manufacturing materials. Evidence of one or more of the following shall create a rebuttable presumption that merchandise or manufacturing materials are being stored on the premises: (i)Multiple boxes of uniform appearance bearing shipping labels;(ii)Multiple articles of similar type in unused condition, including without limitation raw materials for manufacturing furniture and computer components; (iii)Pallets containing multiple boxes;(iv)The residential address is being used as a business address or business delivery address.(c)Commercial equipment, including without limitation vending machines.(d)Motor vehicle parts, including without limitation automobile engines and transmissions.(e)Household furniture, including without limitation sofas and recliners.(f)Construction materials, including without limitation lumber and cement blocks.(g)Construction and demolition equipment, including without limitation cement mixers, jack hammers, and roof tar pots, provided, however, that light-use equipment customarily used for do-it-yourself home repair, including without limitation hand tools, power tools, and table saws, shall not be prohibited. (2)Properties with bona fide agricultural uses shall be exempt from this subsection. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 5, 5-11-04; Ord. No. 08-134, § 7, 12-2-08; Ord. No. 11-100, § 2, 12-6-11) Sec. 19-14. Maintenance Standards for Lots in Non-Residential Zoned Districts.(A)It shall be the responsibility of the responsible party for any lot in a nonresidential zoned district to regularly maintain their property to prevent the following: (1)The growth or accumulation of any grass, weeds, non-native undergrowth or other dead plant life that exceeds the height of eighteen (18) inches from the ground for more than fifty (50) percent of the area to be maintained; (2)Storage or maintenance of junk, trash, abandoned property or solid waste on any lot. All lots shall be maintained within one hundred (100) feet from the boundary line of any property with a building or structure or within one hundred (100) feet from the boundary line of any improved road. In the event that the remaining area constitutes less than twenty-five (25) percent of the total square footage of the lot, then the entire lot shall require maintenance action. (B)It shall be the responsibility of the responsible party for the property adjacent to a County right-of-way and in a non-residential zoned district to maintain the swale area which abuts their property. (C) Agricultural zoned property. When concerns or complaints are raised about agricultural properties, a compliance officer shall investigate. The Department shall apply the definition in Section 19-3(B) to determine a bonafide agricultural use. If the concern or complaint is deemed to be valid, a notice of evaluation shall be issued to the property owner or lessee. The property owner or lessee shall be given thirty (30) days from the date of such notice to correct the use or practice. If clarification of the use or practice is needed, an appropriate agricultural agency shall be consulted for information. If the property owner or lessee fails to correct the condition, enforcement action shall commence to require compliance with this code. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 08-134, § 8, 12-2-08) Sec. 19-15. Maintenance of Business and Commercial Premises. All business or commercial premises shall meet the standards set forth in Secs. 19-15.1 through 19-15.12. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.1. Owner Responsibility for Compliance. It is the responsibility of the property owner to maintain their property in accordance with the provisions of this section. Where applicable, tenants or lessees shall receive enforcement notices in connection with enforcement; however, the property owner is ultimately responsible for compliance. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.2. Compliance with this Section. Upon verification of a violation of this section, the enforcement officer shall issue a courtesy warning notice to the property and business lessee where applicable. Failure to comply with this notice shall result in the issuance of a civil citation in accordance with Chapter 8CC. The issuance of citations for repeat offenses shall be in the manner discussed in Chapter 8CC. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.3. Parking and paved areas. Parking and paved areas shall be maintained free of deterioration. Deterioration shall be defined as visible holes exceeding a depth of two inches and more than 5 square inches in area, damaged parking stops or missing striping or lot markings, including striping of parking spaces, required striping and pavement markings for disabled parking spaces, as well as access ramps and access paths for wheelchair traffic, as required under Article II, Section 30-442 of the Code of Miami-Dade County and Section 553.5041(6) of the Florida Statutes, and required striping and pavement markings for parking spaces for persons transporting young children and strollers, as required by Section 33-122.2 of this Code. Parking areas and paved areas shall be maintained in accordance with the approved site plan and public works, building or zoning permits. For all commercial parking lots, the parking spaces shall be marked with double striping on each side of the space to identify and facilitate their use. All striping shall be of a color (typically white) contrasting with the pavement. Dimension requirements shall be as noted in Sec. 33-122 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 6, 5-11-04) Sec. 19-15.4. Parking Lot Repairs Require a Permit. Repairs to parking and paved areas shall require prior permit approval of the Building, Planning and Zoning and Public Works Departments. Repairs shall be defined as: application of seal coating, resurfacing parking or alteration of paved areas, including the application of new striping. All work shall be performed by a licensed contractor. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.5. Bicycle Racks and Litter Containers; Anti-littering Signage and Right-of-way and Overall Cleanliness of premises; Compliance with Site Plan Requirements.(A)Bicycle racks and litter bins shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the approved site plan and Section 33-122.3 of Miami-Dade County Code. Notwithstanding the approved site plan, the property owner shall be responsible for placing and maintaining bicycle racks and litter bins as required by County Code. It shall be prohibited to maintain litter bins and trash receptacles with overflowing trash and litter. The bicycle parking spaces shall be located near one of the principal entrances to the building. The bicycle parking spaces should be in a highly visible, well lighted location that provides enough clear space to facilitate easy use and does not impede pedestrian traffic or handicap accessibility and is protected from the weather by being located under roof overhangs and canopies. The parking spaces may not be placed on the County maintained right-of-way. The design of the bicycle rack should permit the locking of the frame and at least one (1) wheel with a standard size "U" lock and accommodate the typical range of bicycle sizes. The bicycle rack shall: resist removal; be constructed to resist rust, corrosion and vandalism; and be properly maintained. All bicycle parking spaces shall be posted with a permanent and properly maintained above-ground sign. The bottom of the sign shall be at least five (5) feet above grade when attached to a building or seven (7) feet above grade for a detached sign, which may not be installed in the County maintained right-of-way. No permit shall be required for such signs. (B)The property owner or lessee shall be required to maintain his or her property (parking lot, drive ways, sidewalks, and common areas), as well as abutting right-of-way areas free and clear of litter and articles. Abutting area shall be defined as the public right-of-way immediately abutting the premises. The area to be maintained shall be from the edge of pavement to the property line and shall include sidewalk areas and swales. (C)All shopping centers, strip malls, grocery stores, restaurants or commercial establishments that sell takeout beverages or food shall provide a litter container near every entrance and at every 100 feet along any established pedestrian walkway within the footprint of such property. Litter containers shall be well designed and secured in a manner that will cause them to remain stationary where placed. They shall be maintained free of graffiti and overflow trash. Placement of the containers shall not interfere with access to the facilities by pedestrians or by individuals with disabilities, as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines in the Code of Federal Regulation, Title 36, Pt. 1191, App. A. The civil penalty for a violation of this section is $100. (D)All establishments that sell merchandise or food for take out, shall post an anti-litter sign in a prominently visible location outside the establishment, as well as at all drive through lanes for restaurants and retail sales establishments. All signs required under this section shall be a minimum of 14" by 14" in size and shall state: "Littering is Prohibited by Law - Punishable by a Minimum Fine of $250 under Section 8CC-10 of the Code of Miami Dade County". (F)All establishments shall provide screening for service areas, including waste disposal areas, if required by Chapter 33 of this Code, and shall otherwise comply with the site plan approved pursuant to Sec. 33-245.2 of this Code. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 7, 5-11-04) Sec. 19-15.6. Premises lighting. Premises lighting shall be maintained in a safe and operable condition in accordance with the required site plan and Chapter 8C of this Code. Fixtures that are not emitting light shall be defined as inoperable. Lighting repairs shall be performed by a licensed electrician in accordance with the building code requirements and Chapter 8C. The property owner shall be responsible for ensuring that the scope of repairs or fixture replacement meets zoning standards for light spillage. It shall be illegal to replace or change the configuration of the exterior premises lighting without first obtaining a permit from the Building Department or Department of Planning and Zoning. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.7. Maintenance of Informational or Directional Signs. Informational or directional signs shall be maintained in a safe and visible manner and free of graffiti. It shall be unlawful to maintain or allow to be maintained missing or damaged signs required to designate disabled, bicycle area, baby stroller or other signage required by County Code, including the required striping and pavement markings for disabled parking spaces, as well as access ramps and access paths for wheelchair traffic, as required under Article II, Section 30-442 of the Code of Miami-Dade County and Section 553.5041(6) of the Florida Statutes. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.8. General Maintenance of Signs. All signs shall be maintained in accordance with Section 33-97 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. In addition: (a)It shall be illegal to repair or replace a sign or sign lettering or to move a sign without first obtaining approval from the Department of Planning and Zoning, but excluding signs designed specifically to advertise daily and/or weekly specials, movie showings, religious services, school activities, community events/meetings and the like. Property owners shall be required to remove signs that are associated with a business that has vacated the premises. (b)Illuminated marquee signs, stand alone signs and wall signs shall be properly illuminated from sunset to sunrise and shall be maintained in proper repair, including the proper illumination of all letters in signs with illuminated stand alone letters. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.9. Premises Entrance and Egress; Exterior Pedestrian Walkways, Parking Lots, Green Areas And Public Rights-Of-Way.(a)Premises entrances and egresses, including lighting, signage, and landscaping, shall be maintained so as not to cause visibility hazards to motorists or pedestrians. Entrances and egresses shall be maintained in accordance with the approved site plan. (b)Exterior pedestrian walkways, parking lots, green areas and public rights-of-way shall remain free of obstructions, including but not limited to tables and chairs, merchandise displays, and store merchandise. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.10. Exterior Building Surfaces. Exterior walls, rooftops, and other exterior features of structures shall be maintained free of peeling paint and graffiti. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.11. Maintenance of Masonry Walls, Fences, Landscape Buffers and Entrance Features Masonry walls, fences, landscape buffers, and entrance features shall be maintained in accordance with County Code and zoning site plans. Masonry walls, fences and entrance features shall be maintained in working order and shall be free from structural deterioration, sagging, disrepair, or other deterioration or defects. Walls and fences shall be painted and maintained free from peeling paint and graffiti. Existing landscaping shall be irrigated, cultivated, and otherwise maintained as required by the site plan or Chapter 18A, whichever controls. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03) Sec. 19-15.12. Prohibited Display of Vehicles for Sale or as Advertising Devices.(A)No vehicle shall be displayed for sale in a business or commercial premise unless the parcel has a zoning certificate of use for the sale of new or used vehicles. (B)No vehicle, trailer, or other mobile article shall be allowed to be used solely as an advertising device in a parking lot or nearby right-of-way. Any vehicle, trailer or other mobile article that remains in the same parked location for more than 72 hours and that contains commercial advertising or that meets the junk criteria in this Chapter shall be a prima facie violation of this subsection. (C)All violations of this section shall be punishable by a civil violation notice in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first vehicle on a first offense and five hundred dollars ($500.00) per vehicle for each additional vehicle and any repeat violation of this section. The County may place a lien on the vehicle and any real property owned by the violator in Miami-Dade County until all fines, enforcement costs, and administrative costs are paid by the violator. Any vehicle in violation of this section shall be towed if not removed by the owner. Vehicle owners shall be responsible for all fines, towing fees, storage fees, and any administrative and enforcement fees that result from the enforcement of this section. (Ord. No. 03-160, §§ 1, 2, 7-8-03; Ord. No. 04-90, § 8, 5-11-04)

,Chapter 19A MOBILE HOMES [1]

Sec. 19A-1. Florida Statutes and State regulations.Sec. 19A-2. Definitions.Sec. 19A-3. Exceptions.Sec. 19A-4. Penalty for violations.Sec. 19A-5. Foundations, piers and anchors.Sec. 19A-6. Notification and enforcement of State regulations and chapter.Sec. 19A-1. Florida Statutes and State regulations.(A) Florida Statutes. Pursuant to Chapter 320, as amended, the following mandatory regulations set forth the minimum standards applicable to mobile homes and motor vehicles, as defined herein, used as housing: (1)All construction in mobile homes manufactured more than six (6) months after July 11, 1967, and sold or offered for sale in the State of Florida, shall meet the provisions of the American National Standards Institute Standard ANSI A-119-1; including body and frame construction and the installation of plumbing, heating and electrical systems. (2)Such vehicles shall be inspected where they are manufactured by the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles and shall bear a seal assuring compliance with the Standard ANSI A-119-1, as well as with such rules and regulations said Department deems necessary for effective administration and enforcement. (3)Such vehicles shall also bear the certification by the manufacturer that the vehicle to which the seal is attached meets or exceeds the provisions of the Standard ANSI A-119-1, except, where a used mobile home originally sold out of the State of Florida is resold in Florida, the dealer shall provide the certification. (4)Where a used mobile home, manufactured prior to July 11, 1967, is sold in the State of Florida, the seller shall provide certification that the vehicle meets the standards in effect at the time the vehicle was manufactured. (5)(a)The owner of a mobile home shall secure it to the ground by the use of anchors and tie downs so as to resist wind overturning and sliding. (b)A mobile home manufactured in accordance with the Standard ANSI A-119-1 and labeled "hurricane and windstorm resistive" shall be anchored according to the instructions furnished by the manufacturer and shipped within each unit. (c)A mobile home not meeting the ANSI Standard provisions shall be anchored as set forth in Section 19A-5 herein. (6)The owner of a mobile home, or a motor vehicle used as housing, unless excepted by Section 19A-3, who resides in or is intending to reside in a trailer or mobile home park, or other authorized location in Florida, shall obtain a certificate of completion approving such use from the appropriate jurisdiction. (7)After on-site inspection and compliance with federal, State and local codes and regulations, the final certificate of completion shall be issued. (B) County ordinance. In the unincorporated areas, this chapter shall be enforced by the County Building Official. (1)In the incorporated areas, this chapter shall be enforced by the municipalities.(2)Where this chapter is not enforced within a municipality the County shall enforce the same through the County Building Official.(3)No variance shall be granted from the provisions hereof. (Ord. No. 77-1, § 1, 1-4-77) Sec. 19A-2. Definitions. In construing the provisions of this chapter and each and every word, term, phrase, or part hereof where the context will permit the definitions provided in Section 320.01, Florida Statutes, and as otherwise provided herein shall apply: (a) Recreational vehicle: Classed under "motor vehicle," a recreational vehicle-type unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or is drawn by another vehicle. (b) Travel trailer: Classed under "motor vehicle," a vehicular portable unit, mounted on wheels, of such a size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits when drawn by a motorized vehicle. It is primarily designed and constructed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use. It is of a body width of no more than eight (8) feet and a body length of no more than thirty-two (32) feet when factory-equipped for the road. (c) Camping trailer: Classed under "motor vehicle," a vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed with collapsible partial sidewalls which fold for towing by another vehicle and unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use. (d) Truck camper: Classed under "motor vehicle," a portable unit, designed to be loaded onto, or affixed to, the bed or chassis of a truck, constructed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use. (e) Motor home: Classed under "motor vehicle," a vehicular unit built on a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis, primarily designed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use. (f) Mobile home: Not classed as a "motor vehicle," includes any type of trailer or vehicle body, regardless of any appurtenances, additions or other modifications thereto, without independent motive power, manufactured upon an integral chassis or undercarriage and designed either for travel over the highways or for housing accommodations or both. (g) Owner: Includes any person, firm, corporation, or association controlling any vehicle by right of purchase, gift, lease or otherwise. (h) Final certificate of completion: An instrument issued by the Building Official certifying that all final inspections required for mobile homes, and motor vehicles used as housing, have been completed in accordance with State and local codes and regulations and that occupancy is approved. (i) Mobile home or motor vehicle used as housing: A mobile home or motor vehicle used as a dwelling place and located on the same site for fourteen (14) or more continuous days. (j) Coastal General Flood Hazard District: Shall mean that a portion of Dade County comprised of those areas designated "A" upon the official flood hazard boundary map issued and approved by the Federal Insurance Administrator dated August 14, 1970, and No. 12-025-0000-01 through 56 and as the same may, from time to time, be amended by the Federal Insurance Administrator. (Ord. No. 77-1, § 1, 1-4-77) Sec. 19A-3. Exceptions.(a)Existing mobile homes or motor vehicles used as housing which remain on the same site and which are in compliance with the requirements of Chapter 19A on January 4, 1977, shall be exempt from the additional requirements imposed by the amendment to this chapter having an effective date of January 5, 1977. Mobile homes or motor vehicles which are moved to a site after January 4, 1977 or which were used as housing, not in compliance with this chapter on January 4, 1977, must meet all requirements of this chapter. (b)Travel trailers used as housing only during the time frame period of November 30th to May 1st shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. No. 77-1, § 1, 1-4-77) Sec. 19A-4. Penalty for violations. Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of these regulations shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the Metropolitan Court; and each day's violation shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. No. 77-1, § 1, 1-4-77) Sec. 19A-5. Foundations, piers and anchors.(A)All mobile homes and motor vehicles used as housing shall be anchored and secured in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (B)The following mandatory provisions are substantially the minimum standards set forth by the Dpartment of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, Division of Motor Vehicles, for blocking, anchoring and securing mobile homes and motor vehicles used as housing: (1) Foundations and piers. (a)Pier foundations shall be provided upon each main supporting beam running lengthwise in the frame of mobile homes and motor vehicles. Such foundations shall not exceed ten (10) feet center-to-center and shall be so located that the supporting beams extend no more than two (2) feet beyond the center line of the foundations, front or rear. Double-wide structures will require twice the number of foundations and piers as is required for single-wide structures. (b)All grass and other organic material shall be removed and the pier foundations shall be placed on stable soil, level rock or gravel, or embedded at least four (4) inches in sand or loam soil. Pier foundations shall be sixteen (16) inches by sixteen (16) inches by four (4) inches thick solid concrete, precast, poured-in-place, or the equivalent. (c)Corner piers shall be double blocked and all other piers shall be constructed of approved eight-inch by eight-inch by sixteen-inch concrete block, solid or cored with open cells vertical, centered on each pier foundation. A two-inch by eight-inch by sixteen-inch long wood plate, treated in accordance with paragraph 2913.2(a) of the South Florida Building Code, shall be placed on top of each pier with shim shingles fitted and driven tight between the wood plate and the main frame where necessary to provide uniform bearing. 1.Single block piers shall be installed perpendicular to the main supporting beams.2.Piers over forty (40) inches in height shall be of double-block tiers, each tier turned ninety (90) degrees from the tier below and capped with four (4) inches of concrete, poured or the equivalent, and cushioned with pressure-treated wood shims or wood plate. 3.Corner piers over three (3) blocks high shall be double-blocked tiers, each tier turned ninety (90) degrees from the tier below, and capped with four (4) inches of concrete, poured or the equivalent, and cushioned with pressure-treated wood shims or wood plate. (d)Other equivalent types of foundations and piers may be provided where approved by the Building Official.(2) Tie downs. (a)Each structure shall be provided with minimum anchorage according to Table 19A and all anchorage products and their installation shall be approved by the Building Official. TABLE 19A * Required around the perimeter only (outside main frame members only of both single-wide and double-wide structures). ** Perimeter frame-tie ground anchors may be located so as to provide common anchorage with over-roof ties. Over-roof ties are not required for double-wide units. TABLE 19A-A* * This table only applies to those newly installed mobile homes or motor vehicles used as housing, located within the Coastal General Flood Hazard District designated "A" upon the official flood hazard boundary map issued and approved by the Federal Insurance Administrator and required by the established rules and regulations issued by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development on October 26, 1976 in accordance with the National Flood Insurance Program. (b)Frame ties shall be attached to the main framing members (chassis) in a manner not allowing release under vibratory loading. Frame ties shall include approved one-half-inch drop-forged steel turn-buckles with welded eyes connected to approved ground anchors with wire rope having a breaking strength of not less than four thousand seven hundred fifty (4,750) pounds, or the equivalent. End ties shall attach not more than twenty-four (24) inches from each end of the frame. 1.Intermediate ties shall be spaced at equal intervals according to the requirements tabulated in Table 19A (c)Over-roof ties shall not contact with the structure except at adequately reinforced areas where the additional load will not damage such structure. 1.Over-roof ties shall be approved straps capable of resisting an up-lift force of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot. The intermediate strap shall be located midway between the end straps. 2.End over-roof ties shall be installed not more than twenty-four (24) inches from the end of the structure, or at the first stud-and-truss, and attach to the same ground anchor as the frame ties. Where frames do not extend to the rear wall of structure, frame ties shall attach not less than six (6) inches from the rear end of the frame. Intermediate over-roof ties shall then be located as midway between end ties as is feasible. (d)Other equivalent types of ground anchors, frame ties and over the roof ties may be provided where the design and installation procedure are approved by the Building Official. (3) Ground anchors. Ground anchors shall be of approved design and shall be one of the following: (a)A steel screw auger not less than six (6) inches in diameter at one end of a minimum five-eighths-inch diameter steel rod and a welded eye at the other end. 1.Where installed, such augers shall penetrate the ground not less than three and one-half (3½) feet.(b)A five-eighths-inch diameter steel rod providing a six-inch hook at one end and a welded eye at the other, or a bent U-shaped five-eighths-inch rod with two (2) three-inch hooks, cast into a reinforced concrete slab not less than four (4) inches thick and one hundred (100) square feet in area. (c)An eyebolt or U-shaped anchor rod as described in subparagraph (b) above, cast at least six (6) inches into a poured-in-place concrete deadman at least six (6) inches in diameter and embedded not less than two (2) feet deep in rock. (4) Exceptions. (a)Single-wide mobile structures of a model year prior to 1971 shall be considered as complying with the provisions of this section where at least one (1) over-roof tie is provided at each end of such structure. Frame ties shall, however, be provided as tabulated in Table 19A herein. (b)End frame-ties only may be provided where mobile structures are located adjacent to a concrete slab, as set forth in subparagraph (3)(b) herein, providing the underside of the structure floor is twelve (12) inches or less above the surface of such slab and sixteen (16) inches or less above the ground surface beneath the structure, measured vertically. (c)Where a minimum of two-thirds the length of the frame of a mobile unit is supported by and attached to a structure which meets the requirements for uplift and overturning for permanent construction, as set forth in subsection 2306.4 of the South Florida Building Code, the tie down provisions of this chapter shall be considered as having been met. (Ord. No. 77-1, § 1, 1-4-77) Sec. 19A-6. Notification and enforcement of State regulations and chapter.(a)Trailer and mobile home park owners or operators shall notify all current and prospective park occupants of their legal responsibility to obtain a certificate of completion, unless excepted herein, and shall post the provisions of State regulations, as amended, and of this chapter, as amended, in conspicuous locations within such parks. (b)A temporary certificate of completion may be obtained by the park owner, owner or operator or State licensed mobile home or motor vehicle dealer for any mobile home or motor vehicle used as housing, and required to meet the provisions of this chapter for a maximum of thirty (30) consecutive days prior to obtaining the required final certificate of completion. Such temporary certificate of completion must be obtained before occupancy and before its expiration in thirty (30) days, a final certificate of completion obtained or said mobile home or motor vehicle used for housing shall cease to be occupied. A final certificate of completion shall be issued upon application after inspection verifies that the provisions of this chapter have been met and after payment of a reasonable fee. (Ord. No. 77-1, § 1, 1-4-77)

,Chapter 20 MUNICIPALITIES [1]



,Chapter 21 OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS



,Chapter 22 WAGE THEFT

Sec. 22-1. Declaration of policy.Sec. 22-2. Definitions.Sec. 22-3. Wage theft violations.Sec. 22-4. Procedures for wage theft complaints.Sec. 22-5. Enforcement of wage theft violations.Sec. 22-6. Severability and construction.Sec. 22-7. Reporting.Sec. 22-8. Sunset review.Sec. 22-1. Declaration of policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy of Miami-Dade County in the exercise of its police power for the public safety, health and general welfare, to eliminate and prevent wage theft. Eliminating the underpayment or nonpayment of wages earned by persons working in the County serves the public purpose by promoting economic security and dignity for those working in the County; by promoting business and economic development through the elimination of unfair economic competition by unscrupulous businesses that do not pay or that underpay their employees; and by relieving the burden on the public that subsidize unscrupulous employers whose employees are forced to rely on public assistance because of unpaid or underpaid wages. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10) Sec. 22-2. Definitions.(a) Employee shall mean a natural person who performs work within the geographic boundaries of Miami-Dade County while being employed by an employer, but shall not include any bona fide independent contractor. (b) Employer shall include any person who, acting either individually or as an officer, agent, or employee of another person, acts directly or indirectly in the interest of a person or entity employing an employee; but such term does not include: (1)The United States or a corporation wholly owned by the government of the United States;(2)The State of Florida;(3)Miami-Dade County;(4)The Public Health Trust of Miami-Dade County; or(5)An Indian Tribe.(c) [Employ.] The meaning of "employ", including as used in the term employment, shall include to suffer or permit to work. (d) Independent contractor shall have the same meaning as in the Internal Revenue Code and implementing federal regulations. (e) Wage rate shall mean any form of monetary compensation which the employee agreed to accept in exchange for performing work for the employer, whether daily, hourly, or by piece but in all cases shall be equal to no less than the highest applicable rate established by operation of any federal, state or local law. (f) Reasonable time shall be presumed to be no later than fourteen calendar days from the date on which the work is performed unless the employer has established, by policy or practice, a pay schedule whereby employees earn and are consistently paid wages according to regularly recurring pay periods in which case such pay schedule shall govern. (g) Threshold amount shall mean sixty dollars ($60.00). (h) Liquidated damages shall mean twice the amount a respondent employer is found to have unlawfully failed to pay the complainant employee. Where an employee is awarded treble damages for wage theft violations, liquidated damages are awarded in addition to back wages in order to compensate for the economic losses suffered by reason of the employee not receiving their wage at the time it was due. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10; Ord. No. 10-37, § 1, 6-3-10) Sec. 22-3. Wage theft violations. For any employer to fail to pay any portion of wages due to an employee, according to the wage rate applicable to that employee, within a reasonable time from the date on which that employee performed the work for which those wages were compensation, shall be wage theft; and such a violation shall entitle an employee, upon a finding by a hearing examiner appointed by Miami-Dade County or by a court of competent jurisdiction that an employer is found to have unlawfully failed to pay wages, to receive back wages in addition to liquidated damages from that employer. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10) Sec. 22-4. Procedures for wage theft complaints.(1) Filing wage theft complaints. (a)Threshold amount. In order for a complaint to be submitted to the County by, or on behalf of, an aggrieved employee, that employee must allege a wage theft violation in which the unpaid wages are equal to no less than the threshold amount. (b)Either of the following may file a written, signed complaint with the County using the procedures set forth in an Implementing Order: (i)An employee aggrieved by a wage theft action prohibited by this article; or(ii)Any entity a member of which is aggrieved by a violation of this article.(c)A signed complaint for wage theft must be filed with the County in the manner prescribed by Implementing Order no later than one (1) year after the last date upon which the complainant employee performed the work for a respondent employer with regard to which the employee alleges a violation of this article has occurred ("filing deadline"); however, with respect to alleged ongoing violations, once a complaint has been made in compliance with the filing deadline, the County's enforcement capacity is limited only by the applicable statute(s) of limitations. (d)The complaint shall set forth the facts upon which it is based with sufficient specificity to identify the respondent or respondents and for the County to determine both that an allegation of wage theft has been made and that the threshold amount has been met. (2) Respondent. (a)Upon the filing of any complaint, the County shall promptly determine that the wage theft complaint alleges wage theft, names at least one respondent and meets the threshold amount criterion. The duty of the County in determining whether a complaint meets this criterion is limited to receiving the complaint and comparing the information provided in the complaint to the criteria required herein. This determination is a ministerial act and may not be based on further investigation or the exercise of independent judgment. (b)Upon making such determination, the County shall serve the complaint and a written notice on the respondent or person charged with the commission of a wage theft practice, setting forth the allegations, rights and obligations of the parties including, but not limited to, the right to a due process hearing on the matter before a Hearing Examiner and that the respondent may be responsible for the costs of the Hearing Examiner and other enforcement costs. Such service shall be by certified mail. (c)Each respondent shall file an answer to the complaint with the County not later than twenty (20) days after receipt of the complaint and notice from the Director. (3) Subpoenas. (a)If a Hearing Examiner is appointed, any party may request that a subpoena be issued by the Hearing Examiner. Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Hearing Examiner shall be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in the County Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida. Fees payable to a witness summoned by subpoena issued at the request of a party shall be paid by the party. (b)Within ten (10) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such person may petition the Hearing Examiner to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Hearing Examiner shall grant the petition if it finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to the matter, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason. (c)In the case of the contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Hearing Examiner or any party may seek enforcement of a subpoena issued under the authority of this chapter by filing a petition for enforcement in the County Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (d)In any enforcement proceedings authorized by this chapter, the court may award to the prevailing party all or part of the costs and Attorney's fees incurred in obtaining the court order as authorized by the Florida Rules of Civil Procedures. (e)Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence, if in his or her power to do so, may be fined by the County Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida, not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than sixty (60) days or both. (f)Any person who, makes or causes to be made any false entry or false statement of fact in any report, account, record or other document submitted to the Hearing Examiner pursuant to its subpoena or other order, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, may be fined by the County Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida, not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than sixty (60) days or both. (4) Applicability of Florida Rules of Civil Procedure. (a)The provisions of Rule 1.090, Florida Rules of Civil Procedure, shall govern the computation of any period of time prescribed or allowed by this chapter or by rules, regulations, or orders adopted pursuant to this chapter. (b)All papers or pleadings required by this chapter to be served may be served by certified mail or in accordance with Rule 1.080, Florida Rules of Civil Procedure. (5) Standards for Resolving Factual Disputes. (a) Adequate Records. When the following three conditions are met: (i)Where by operation of some other statute or regulation, a respondent employer has an obligation to keep records of an employee's hours worked and/or records of compensation provided to an employee; and (ii)Where such records are imprecise, inadequate or do not exist; and(iii)Where a complainant employee presents sufficient evidence to show, as a matter of just and reasonable inference, the amount of work done or the extent of work done or what compensation is due for the work done; (b)Then the burden of imprecision falls on the respondent whose obligation it was to keep accurate records and the respondent must come forward with evidence of the precise amount of work performed or with evidence to negate the reasonableness of the inference to be drawn from the complainant's evidence; if the respondent fails to meet this burden, the Hearing Examiner or any court, whichever is applicable, may award approximate damages based on the complainant's evidence. (6) Conciliation. (a)It is the policy of the County to encourage conciliation of charges. The County will work with the parties in an attempt to conciliate the agreement. If possible, a written conciliation agreement resolving the dispute between the complainant and the respondent shall be executed prior to the referral of the matter to a Hearing Examiner. (b)A conciliation agreement arising out of such conciliation shall be an agreement between the respondent and the complainant.(c)Whenever a party believes that the other party has breached a conciliation agreement, the aggrieved party may file a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction for enforcement of such agreement. (d)Nothing said or done in the course of attempting conciliation under this chapter may be used as evidence in any subsequent proceeding under this chapter or otherwise without the written consent of the parties to the underlying charge of violation. (7) Hearing before Hearing Examiner. (a)Within fifteen (15) days after the service of the Complaint on the respondent, and after determination that the complaint meets the threshold and other requirements, any party may submit a written request for a hearing before a Hearing Examiner. The County shall appoint a Hearing Examiner that it deems to be qualified to hear wage theft matters. In conducting any hearing to determine whether a violation of this chapter has occurred, the Hearing Examiner shall have the authority to administer oaths, issue subpoenas, compel the production of and receive evidence. The Hearing Examiner shall have the authority to consolidate two or more complaints into a single hearing where such complaints name the same respondent(s) and involve sufficiently similar allegations of fact to justify consolidation. The final determination of the Hearing Examiner in wage theft matters is subject to appeal in a court of competent jurisdiction. (b)In any hearing before the Hearing Examiner pursuant to this section, the respondent may file a written answer to the complaint. All parties shall appear at the hearing in person, with or without counsel, and may submit evidence, cross-examine witnesses, obtain issuance of subpoenas and otherwise be heard. Testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and a transcript shall be made available at cost to any interested party. (c)Discovery shall be permitted upon motion of any party and shall proceed in the manner provided by the Florida Rules of Civil Procedure. (d)The Hearing Examiner may direct that the parties submit a pre-hearing statement addressing the issues of law and fact that will be involved in such hearing, identify the witnesses that will testify, and provide a list of all documents or other types of exhibits that will be submitted. (e)Upon the conclusion of the hearing, an adjudicative final order shall be issued and served upon the parties setting forth written findings of fact and conclusions of law. (f)In any proceeding under this article, the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence rests upon the complainant.(8) Representation by Non-lawyer Advocate. Any person may be represented by counsel in any proceeding herein. Any party, including corporate entities, as an alternative to counsel, may be represented by a non-lawyer advocate authorized by that party in any proceeding herein unless specifically disallowed by the Hearing Examiner for good cause. (9) Enforcement by private persons or by the State of Florida. (a) Enforcement by private persons. (i)If during the pendency of a wage theft violation complaint but prior to the issuance of a final decision by a Hearing Examiner, a complainant employee brings a private action in their own right, whether under state law, federal law, or both, in any state or federal court to seek unpaid wages based upon the same facts and allegations as the complainant employee's complaint to the County, or affirmatively or by consent opts to participate in any such litigation, that complainant employee's complaint of wage theft shall be deemed withdrawn with respect to any respondent employer named as a defendant in such court action. This section shall be interpreted narrowly so as to leave unaffected any cumulative rights which were not the subject of a complaint employee's complaint. (ii)The County, upon becoming aware of any private action described herein shall advise the complainant and any respondent subject to the private action in writing within fifteen (15) days of this provision and its effect on the complaint. Within thirty (30) days of the issuance of such notice, the County will dismiss, with prejudice, the complainant's complaint only with respect to the respondent or respondents who are named as a defendant to the private action. (b) Enforcement by the State of Florida. If at any time during the pendency of a complaint of wage theft, the County becomes aware of an enforcement action by the Florida Attorney General or other body of the State of Florida based on wage violations involving the same facts as the complainant employee's complaint to the County, the County will dismiss, either with or without prejudice, the complainant employee's complaint with respect to the respondent or respondents named in such State enforcement action. The County shall advise the complainant and any respondent of such dismissal. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10) Sec. 22-5. Enforcement of wage theft violations.(1) Order Issued. At the conclusion of a hearing and upon a finding of a wage violation, the Hearing Examiner shall issue a written order as follows: (a)If the preponderance of the evidence demonstrates a wage theft violation, the Hearing Examiner shall order the employer to pay wage restitution to the affected employee in an amount equal to three times the amount of back wages that the respondent employer is found to have unlawfully failed to pay the complainant employee; this treble amount shall include the back wages in addition to liquidated damages as compensation for the economic losses suffered by reason of the employee not receiving their wage at the time it was due; and (b)The County shall order the employer to pay to the Board of County Commissioners an assessment of costs in an amount not to exceed actual administrative processing costs and costs of the hearing. (2) Failure to Comply with Initial Order. If the County finds that any respondent employer has failed to comply with the Hearing Examiner's order within forty-five (45) days after written notice from the County, the County shall issue a further written order on the respondent employer as follows: (a)The County may, upon request of the respondent, grant the respondent an additional forty-five (45) days to comply with any portion of the order, unless such an extension has previously been granted; and (b)The County shall order the employer, in addition to wage restitution ordered, to pay the prevailing complainant employee an amount equal to the applicable interest rate which accrues on the full amount of treble damages from the date upon which the finding of wage violation was made until the date upon which the amount is paid in full; and (c)The County shall order the employer, in addition to assessment of costs ordered, to pay to the Board of County Commissioners an amount equal to the applicable interest rate which accrues on the assessment of costs from the date upon which the Hearing Examiner's order is issued until the date upon which the amount is paid in full. (3) Joint and Severable Liability. In any order issued by the Hearing Examiner, the County may specify two or more respondents as jointly and severally liable for any amount payable to the complainant or the County or both; however, the total amount the complainant or the County may receive from jointly and severally liable respondents shall not exceed the total amount for which respondents are jointly and severally liable. (4) Cumulative Rights Preserved. Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit, preclude or in any way abrogate the cumulative rights or remedies available to employees at common law or by other statute which were not the subject of a complainant employee's complaint or the County's enforcement actions; such cumulative rights which shall be unaffected by the provisions of this article unless they are made the subject of a complaint or the County's enforcement action, shall include, but shall not be limited to, rights related to the violation of overtime, minimum wage, living wage, prevailing wage, or equal pay laws. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10) Sec. 22-6. Severability and construction. If any section, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase or other portion of this local law, or the application of this amendment to any person or circumstance, is for any reason, declared unconstitutional or invalid, in whole or in part, by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed severable and such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the local law that added this subchapter, which remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10) Sec. 22-7. Reporting. A fiscal report regarding the administrative cost associated with the implementation of the Ordinance shall be submitted to the applicable BCC Committee within six months of its effective date and one year after its effective date. Thereafter, such fiscal report shall be submitted annually. The fiscal report should provide quarterly statistical data about the number of inquiries, number of petitions for hearings, number of hearings scheduled, the cost of the hearings, and the results of the hearings. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10) Sec. 22-8. Sunset review. This article shall, subject to a sunset review by this Board, stand repealed five (5) years from its effective date. (Ord. No. 10-16, § 1, 2-18-10)

,Chapter 23 PENSIONS



,Chapter 23A PLANNING GENERALLY [1]

Sec. 23A-1. Comprehensive Development Master Plan.Sec. 23A-1. Comprehensive Development Master Plan.(a)The Board of County Commissioners of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, hereby adopts and enacts as Part I of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan the following capitalized section headings contained in the document entitled "Recommended Metropolitan Development Policies as Proposed by Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Planning Advisory Board and Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Planning Department": I. GROWTH MANAGEMENT Miami-Dade County must plan for and manage its population growth in a manner compatible with preserving the natural environment, insuring the provision of services, and protecting natural and man-made amenities. II. PROVISION OF SERVICES Insure that appropriate services, including energy, are coordinated with development and redevelopment, and are available to all. III. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Achieve a harmonious relationship between man and his environment and assure for all citizens and tourists a healthy and aesthetically pleasing surrounding, and educate Miami-Dade County's residents as to their role within and relationship to the total environment. IV. DEVELOPMENT PATTERN Provide the best possible distribution of land uses, by type and density, to meet the physical, social, cultural and economic needs of the present and future resident and tourist population in a manner which would maintain or improve the quality of the natural and man-made environment. Plans for the development or redevelopment of municipalities should be consistent with the policies of the County's Comprehensive Development Master Plan. To provide adequate housing for all segments of the community, including for low and moderate income persons. V. TRANSPORTATION Provide access to employment and the facilities and services of the entire metropolitan area; plan for mobility, opportunity, variety, energy conservation and minimum travel times and costs, safety, comfort and convenience while traveling; and provide for efficiency, economy and a well-balanced, integrated transportation system within Miami-Dade County without detracting from the quality of life of the community. Public or mass transportation should be given top priority as a positive tool to support and improve the viability of the County and the region. Provide a system of transportation facilities which will anticipate the need for the movement of people and storage of goods and vehicles. Coordinate and integrate the County transportation facilities with surrounding activities so that these facilities contribute to the enrichment of the physical environment of Miami-Dade County. Transportation facilities should be planned and designed to conserve energy and other natural resources and existing man-made facilities and to reduce the total need for new public investment. Development within a reasonable radius of rapid transit terminals should be considered as having Countywide impact and managed consistent with overall Countywide goals. VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL NEEDS Foster that type of economic growth and institute those social programs that will improve the quality of life of all Miami-Dade County's residents. To support and promote the cultural arts and spiritual values of our citizens. VII. GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONAND ADMINISTRATION Improve the process of evaluating development and redevelopment projects to achieve creative developments which are coordinated with services and to insure the harmonious relationship between man and his environment. Plans made at various levels of government should be coordinated with each other and should involve citizen participation and input during the entire process. Provide more efficient tools and systems of implementing the Comprehensive Development Master Plan. (b)It is hereby determined that the remaining statements of policies, goals and objectives contained on pages 1 through 27 of the document entitled "Recommended Metropolitan Development Policies as Proposed by Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Planning Advisory Board and Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Planning Department" are accepted as a guideline for further implementation by the Board of County Commissioners and all agencies of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County in the further preparation and implementation of Parts II and III of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan for Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (c)It is hereby determined that all agencies of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, shall be guided by the development policies contained in subsection (a) of this section. (d)The Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Planning Advisory Board and Department of Planning and Zoning are hereby instructed to further prepare and implement Parts II and III of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan for Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, in a manner consistent with the development policies contained in subsection (a) of this section. Further, in carrying out this said duty, the Planning Advisory Board and Department of Planning and Zoning shall be guided by those goals, policies and objectives referred to in subsection (b) hereof. (Ord. No. 74-100, §§ 1—4, 12-4-74; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 15, 9-3-98) Editor's note— Ord. No. 74-100, § 5, provided that said ordinance be included in this Code, but did not specify the manner of inclusion, hence, codification of §§ 1—4 as § 23A-1 was at the discretion of the editors.

,Chapter 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, BISCAYNE BAY AND ENVIRONS DESIGNATEDAQUATIC PARK AND CONSERVATION AREA, THE BISCAYNE BAY ENVIRONMENTALENHANCEMENT TRUST FUND, AND THE ENVIRONMENTALLY ENDANGERED LANDSPROGRAM [1]



,Chapter 24A RESERVED [1]



,Chapter 25 AVIATION DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS [1]

Sec. 25-1. General.Sec. 25-2. Personal conduct.Sec. 25-3. Commercial activity.Sec. 25-4. Ground transportation.Sec. 25-5. Public health.Sec. 25-6. Safety hazards, dangerous articles and fueling operations.Sec. 25-7. Tenant obligations.Sec. 25-8. Control of landside traffic.Sec. 25-9. Control of vehicular traffic on the air operations area.Sec. 25-10. Aircraft and Aircraft Operations. Sec. 25-1. General.25-1.1 Definitions. Note: Words not specifically defined by subsection 25-1.1 herein, which relate to aeronautical practices, processes and equipment, shall be construed according to their general usage in the aviation industry. (1)"Abandon" shall mean to forsake, desert, give up and surrender one's claim or right.(2)"Aircraft" shall mean any contrivance now known or hereafter designed, invented or used for navigation or flight in the air or space, except a parachute or other contrivance used primarily as safety equipment. (3)"Air Operations Area" or "AOA" shall mean any area of the Airport identified by the Department and used or intended to be used for landing, taking-off or surface maneuvering of aircraft, excluding those leasehold areas within or having direct access to the AOA which are subject to security requirements imposed on the lessee or tenant under appropriate federal regulations, or agreement incorporated in a signed lease, unless such security requirements are assumed by the Department through the issuance of an Operational Directive or by lease agreement. (4)"Airport" shall mean any Airport now or hereafter owned or operated by Dade County, Florida.(5)"Apron" or "ramp" shall mean that area of the Airport within the AOA designated by Operational Directive or other document of the Department for the loading, unloading, servicing or parking of aircraft. (6)"Authorized" shall mean acting under or pursuant to a written contract, permit, authorization or other evidence of right issued by the Board, the County Manager or Department Director or their authorized designee(s). (7)"Board" shall mean the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County, Florida.(8)"Bus" shall mean a passenger motor vehicle which operates on or to and from the Airport on a fixed route or a predetermined schedule or in a designated service area on or off the Airport and which holds a valid license from the Florida Public Service Commission or which is operated under a permit issued by the Department. (9)"Code" shall mean the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida, as may be amended from time to time.(10)"Commercial activity" shall mean (a) the exchange, trading, buying, hiring or selling of commodities, goods, services or property of any kind on the Airport, (b) engaging in any conduct on the Airport for revenue-producing purposes, whether or not revenues ultimately are exchanged, obtained, or transferred on the Airport, or (c) the offering or exchange of any service on the Airport as a part of, or condition to, other revenue-producing activities or services on or off the Airport. (11)"Control tower" shall mean a Federal Aviation Administration Air Traffic Control Tower located at an Airport, or one which may be operated by or on behalf of the Department. (12)"County" shall mean the County of Dade in the State of Florida.(13)"County Manager" shall mean the County Manager of Dade County, Florida, appointed by the Board pursuant to the Home Rule Charter.(14)"Courtesy vehicle" shall mean any vehicle used in commercial activity as herein defined, other than a taxicab, to transport persons, baggage or goods, or any combination thereof, of a business establishment owning or operating such vehicle, to or from the Airport, whether or not revenues in payment for such service ultimately are exchanged, obtained or transferred. (15)"Cruising" shall mean the driving of a commercial vehicle on the upper or lower motor vehicle roadways in front of the Terminal Building of an Airport without passengers or cargo or without a pre-arrangement to pick up passengers or cargo for the purpose of advertising the availability of the commercial service. (16)"Curbside" shall mean the curb and those other areas designated by the Department to be used for loading and unloading of passengers and baggage adjacent to the upper and lower motor vehicle roadways within the Terminal Building area at an Airport, as may be designated by the Department for such specific use by appropriate signs or Operational Directive. (17)"Department" shall mean the Dade County Aviation Department, Dade County, Florida.(18)Reserved.(19)"Directive"—See "Operational Directive."(20)"Director" shall mean that person appointed by the County Manager of Dade County, Florida, carrying the title of Aviation Director or his duly authorized representatives. (21)"Domestic animal" shall mean any animal of a species usually domesticated in the United States and customarily found in the home. (22)"Equipment" shall mean mobile units or vehicles, other than those commonly classified as motor vehicles, which are utilized in conjunction with the operation of aircraft or an Airport facility. (23)"Explosives" shall mean any chemical compound or mixture that has the property of yielding readily to combustion or oxidation upon application of heat, flame or shock, or any device, the primary purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term "explosives" includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, nitroglycerine, trinitrotoluene, ammonium nitrate when combined with other ingredients to form an explosive mixture, or other high explosives, detonators, safety fuses, squibbs, detonating cords, igniter cords and igniters. Explosives shall not include shotgun shells, cartridges or ammunition for firearms. (24)"Flammable liquids" shall mean any liquid which emits flammable vapor as set forth in National Fire Protection Association standards, including but not limited to combustible liquids currently used as aircraft or vehicle fuel. (25)"Law enforcement officer" shall mean any person vested with the power of arrest on an Airport under federal, State, or County authority. (26)"Limousine" or "limo" shall mean a for hire motor vehicle not equipped with a taxi meter, and providing seating accommodations for not more than eight (8) persons, not including the driver, operating to and from the Airport for hire in accordance with a valid permit or license from a proper governmental authority, but shall not include vehicles designated as "taxicabs," "vans" or "buses." (27)"Motor vehicle" shall mean a device in, upon or by which a person or property may be propelled, moved, or drawn upon land or water, except a device moved by human or animal power and except aircraft or devices moved exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (28)"Non-operating aircraft" shall mean any aircraft located on an Airport, whether on a tenant leasehold or a public area, which does not possess a current certificate of air worthiness, issued by the Federal Aviation Administration, and is not actively being repaired, i.e., no substantial repair work has been performed on such aircraft for a period in excess of sixty (60) days. (29)"Officer" shall mean a law enforcement officer.(30)"Operational Directive" shall mean a written order issued by the Director bearing the designation "Operational Directive" and requiring specific operational procedures or prohibiting specific operations or types of operations, onto or from an Airport; or establishing designated and restricted uses of various areas of an Airport, and enforceable under Section 25-1.2(c). (31)"Operator" shall mean any person who is in actual physical control of an aircraft or motor vehicle.(32)"Owner" shall mean a person in whose name the legal title of an aircraft or a motor vehicle is held or vested. If any aircraft or motor vehicle is the subject of a conditional sale or lease with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in the agreement, and with the immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee or anyone in possession of an aircraft or motor vehicle on an Airport, or in the event a mortgagor of an aircraft or motor vehicle is entitled to the possession, then the conditional vendee, lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of these rules and regulations. (33)"Park" shall mean to put, leave or let a motor vehicle or aircraft stand or stop in any location whether the operator thereof leaves or remains in such vehicle or aircraft, when such standing or stopping is not required by traffic controls or conditions beyond the control of the operator. (34)"Person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association, or body politic; and includes any trustee, receiver, committee, assignee or other representative or employee thereof. (35)"Ramp"—See "Apron".(36)"Restricted area" shall mean any area of an Airport, locked or posted either to prohibit entry or to limit entry or access to specific authorized persons. (37)"Rules and regulations" shall mean the Dade County Aviation Department Rules and Regulations, as codified in Chapter 25, Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida, including Operational Directives issued thereunder. (38)"Runway(s)" shall mean those portions of an Airport used for the takeoff and landing of aircraft.(39)"Security Identification Display Area(s)" or "SIDA" shall mean those areas of the Airport designated by the Department, in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulations, in which each individual in the area is required to display on their person the identification badge issued by the Department or such other form of identification as approved by the Department. (40)"Security program" shall mean that program developed by the Department relative to the protection and safety of aircraft operations and users of the Airport. (41)"Solicit" or "solicitation" shall mean to directly or indirectly, actively or passively, openly or subtly, ask or endeavor to obtain by asking, request, implore, plead for, importune, seek, or try to obtain. (42)"State" shall mean the State of Florida.(43)"Sunset" or "sunrise" shall mean the time of sunset and sunrise as published by the United States National Weather Service, for the local area. (44)"Taxi lane" shall mean any portion of an Airport authorized or designated by the Department for the surface maneuvering of aircraft, which are used in common, which may or may not be located within leasehold areas and which are not under control of the Control Tower when the Airports have such tower facilities available. (45)"Taxicab", "taxi" or "cab" shall mean any automobile that carries persons for a fare, determined by a meter, and that is appropriately licensed as a taxicab by the proper governmental authority. (46)"Taxiway(s)" shall mean any portion of an Airport authorized or designated by the Department for the surface maneuvering of aircraft, which are used in common, are not located within leasehold areas and which are under control of the Control Tower when the Airports have such tower facilities available. (47)"Terminal Apron" shall mean that area of the Airport within the AOA designated by Operational Directive or other document of the Department, by posted sign, or by lease agreement for loading and unloading of aircraft passengers and/or cargo. (48)"Terminal", or "Terminal Building", or "Terminal Area" shall mean any passenger or cargo terminal facility or Airport facilities available to and accessed by the public as designated from time to time by the Department, including all roadways, vehicular circulation areas and parking facilities associated therewith. (49)"Traffic" shall mean pedestrians and vehicles, either singly or together, while using any Airport area.(50)"Vehicle" shall mean a device in, upon or by which a person or property, or both may be propelled, moved or drawn upon land or water, including a device moved by human or animal power, except aircraft or devices moved exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. The term "vehicle" shall include, but not be limited to, taxis, cars, buses, vans, trucks, buses, limousines and courtesy vehicles of any type or kind. (51)"Commercial vehicle" shall mean any vehicle used in commercial activity as defined herein, on the Airport.(52)"Weapon" shall mean a gun, knife, blackjack, slingshot, metal knuckles, or any explosive device, or any other like instrument capable of being utilized to coerce, intimidate or injure an individual. (53)"Wild animal" shall mean any animal of a species not usually domesticated in the United States nor customarily found in the home. (54)"Zone taxicab" or "Zone taxi" shall mean a chauffeur-driven for-hire motor vehicle which is a sedan or station wagon operating solely within a zone fare system as provided by County ordinance. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 88-37, § 1, 5-3-88; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 1—35, 3-7-95) 25-1.2 Applicability of rules and regulations; Operational Directives. (a)Any permission granted a person by the Board, Department or Director, directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, to enter upon or use an Airport, or any part thereof, is conditioned upon compliance with these rules and regulations and Operational Directives and the payment of any fees or charges established or authorized by the Board, or, if authorized, by the Director, and payable to the County for the use of an Airport or any facility located thereon including any such fees or charges established by the Director and payable to a lessee, management contractor, concessionaire, permittee or franchise holder of the County, or an approved an authorized subcontract thereof, for services rendered to such person; and entry upon or into an Airport by any person shall be deemed to constitute an agreement by such person to comply with such rules and regulations and to pay any such fees and charges. (b)It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any act forbidden by or to fail to perform any act required by these rules and regulations or to fail to pay any fees established and payable pursuant to subsection 25-1.2 hereof. (c)The Department, through its Director, may from time to time cause to be issued Operational Directives applicable to any Airport. If any such Operational Directive contains a requirement that fees or charges be paid for any operation on or use of an Airport as defined in the Operational Directive, such fees and charges shall be established in accordance with the provisions of subsection 25-1.2(a) hereof (Ord. No. 88-37, § 2, 5-3-88; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 36, 37, 3-7-95) 25-1.3 Airport liability. The County assumes no responsibility or liability for loss, injury or damage to persons or property on the Airport or using Airport facilities not caused by negligence of the County or its employees. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-1.4 Emergencies. The Director is empowered to take such action as the Director deems necessary when an emergency exists at an Airport which, in the Director's judgment, presents an immediate threat to public health, security, safety or welfare, or to the operation of an Airport; provided, however, that in the exercise of such power the Director shall promptly notify the governmental agency(ies) or County department(s) having been assigned by the Board or County Manager primary responsibility for the handling and resolution of such emergency, and provided further that the Director's power herein granted shall cease upon the assumption of jurisdiction over such emergency by the governmental agency(ies) or County department(s) and such assumption of responsibility shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of any emergency procedure or program for an Airport adopted and approved by the Board. No action shall knowingly be taken by the Director hereunder or by any County department(s) contrary to any regulation or order of the Federal Aviation Administration or of any other Federal, State or County agency having appropriate jurisdiction. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 38, 3-7-95) 25-1.5 Trespassing. Whoever, without being fully authorized, licensed or invited, willfully enters or remains at an Airport, or portion thereof, or having been authorized, licensed, or invited to an Airport, or portion thereof, is warned or ordered by authorized Department personnel or a law enforcement officer to depart, and refuses to do so, commits the offense of trespass. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 39, 3-7-95) 25-1.6 Other laws. All applicable provisions of the laws of the State of Florida and ordinances of Dade County, Florida, now in existence or hereafter enacted, are hereby adopted by reference as part of these rules and regulations. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-1.7 Penalties. Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, any person violating any of the provisions of these rules and regulations shall be subject to punishment by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the Dade County Jail for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the Dade County Court. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 40, 3-7-95) 25-1.8 Jurisdiction. The violation of any provision hereof shall be triable in the Dade County Court. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-1.9 Captions. The captions or heading of sections and subsections in these rules and regulations are inserted for convenience only, and shall not be considered in construing the provisions hereof. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-1.10 Separability. If any provision of these rules and regulations or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of these rules and regulations and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) Sec. 25-2. Personal conduct. 25-2.1 Handbills. (a)No person shall distribute, exhibit or post any commercial handbills, circulars, leaflets or similar material on the Airport.(b)No person shall throw any handbills, circulars, leaflets or similar material onto the Airport, Airport roads, rights-of-way, streets or sidewalks. (c)Except as may be permitted pursuant to subsection 25-2.2 hereof, distribution of noncommercial handbills, circulars, leaflets or similar material may be conducted only upon Airport public roads, rights-of-way, streets or sidewalks, in accordance with reasonable procedures established by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-2.2 Solicitation of contributions and distribution of materials. (a)No person shall solicit alms or contributions of money or other articles of value, for religious, charitable or any other purpose, and receive money or other articles of value, whether in the form of cash, checks, credit or debit vouchers or any other form of negotiable instrument, in the public areas of the Terminal. No person shall conduct or participate in any speechmaking, distributing of pamphlets, books or other written or graphic materials upon the Airport or within its facilities without having delivered a written notice to the Department of his, her or its intent to do so at least five (5) working days prior thereto so that the Department may be fully informed of the activity proposed and take adequate precautions to protect the public health, safety and order, and to assure the efficient and orderly use of Airport property for its primary purpose and function, and to assure equal opportunity for the freedom of expression of others. (b)The written notice required herein shall state:(1)The full name, address (and mailing address if different), telephone number of the person furnishing the notice, and, if an organization, the name, address and telephone number of a responsible local officer thereof and the title of such officer. (2)The purpose or subject of the proposed activity and a description of the means and methods intended to be used in conducting the same. (3)The date, hours and Airport location desired for the proposed activity and the maximum number of persons proposing to participate therein at any one time or period of time, together with a form of identification card, authenticated copies of which shall be displayed on the outer clothing of each individual participating in the particular activity proposed. Such identification cards shall contain the name of the organization furnishing the notice, the legal name of the individual bearing the card, the signature and title of the official of such organization and the date issued. (c)The Director shall have the authority to prescribe from time to time restrictions applicable to First Amendment activities at the Airport. Such restrictions shall be subject to the requirements of subsection (d) and may include, but not be limited to, identifying specific locations of First Amendment zones in the Terminal Building and other Airport facilities, limiting the number of persons permitted in such zones, and providing a method for resolving conflicting requests for use of First Amendment zones. (d)All restrictions prescribed by the Director shall be reasonable and appropriate, and made only after a finding by the Director that the restrictions are necessary to avoid injury, or the likelihood of injury, to persons or property, or to assure the safe and orderly use of the Airport facilities by the public. (e)Persons having given such written notice to the Director as provided in Section 25-2.2(a) shall be permitted to conduct their activities in or upon the public Airport areas, subject only to the restrictions identified by the Director in a written response sent to the applicant. Such response shall be sent within five (5) working days of the Director's receipt of the applicant's notice. (f)If the Director notifies the applicant that his application is denied, the County Attorney's office shall within five (5) days of such denial file an appropriate action in a court of competent jurisdiction and venue for a judicial determination as to whether the proposed activity described in the complaint may be prohibited, naming the applicant as a party defendant. Dade County shall exert every reasonable effort to have the issue heard on its merits without delay and as quickly as legally possible. The burden of showing that the proposed solicitation may be prohibited shall rest with the County. (g)If the issue for judicial determination is not heard and decided on the merits by the court within ten (10) days from the date the complaint is filed, then the applicant shall be entitled to engage in the activities described in the application, subject only to those restrictions imposed on all other applicants as to time, place and manner of activities, so as to avoid injury to persons or property and to assure the safe and orderly use of the Airport facilities by the public. The applicant may continue to engage in such activities for so long as it may take to reach a final, nonappealed judicial determination. All parties shall thereupon abide by the ruling of such determination. (h)No person, while engaging in the activities provided for herein, shall seek to delay a person from whom a donation or contribution is sought, or to obstruct, or unreasonably interfere with access to or egress from any airline, concession or washroom facilities or premises, including, but not limited to, passenger concourses, escalators and elevators, nor shall such person in any manner assail, coerce, threaten or physically disturb any member of the public, County, airline or concession employee or any other person for any reason. The activities provided for herein shall not intrude upon or take place in any location or area reserved or zoned for a particular use, including, but not limited to, washrooms, offices, seating areas, baggage claim areas, ticketing areas, restaurants, lounges, concessions, areas devoted to business enterprises and passenger concourses and gate holding areas. No person shall engage in the activity hereunder without first identifying the organization he or she represents in connection with such prospective donation. (i)No person, while engaging in the activities provided for herein, shall affix any matter, written or graphic, to any Airport structure or facility, nor shall any such matter be left unattended at any location at the Airport except in baggage lockers for a period not exceeding twenty-four (24) hours upon payment of the prevailing fee. (j)The Director is empowered to wholly or partially restrict the activities provided for herein in the event of emergencies, including but not limited to, strikes affecting the operation of the Airport, aircraft or traffic accidents, riots or civil commotion, power failures, hurricanes, or other conditions tending to disrupt the normal operation of the Airport. (k)All persons engaged in activities permitted under Section 25-2.2 of the Code shall wear and display identification, approved by the Department, identifying such person and the organization such person represents. In no case shall any person in any activity under this section attempt to identify himself or herself as a representative of the County of the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 90-1, § 1, 1-16-90; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 41, 42, 3-7-95) 25-2.3 Preservation of property. No person shall: (a)Destroy, injure, deface, disturb, or tamper with any building, sign, equipment, fixture, marker, or any other structure or property on the Airport; (b)Injure, deface, remove, destroy, or disturb the trees, flowers, shrubs, or other vegetation on the Airport;(c)Walk, drive or park on a posted lawn or seeded area of the Airport; or(d)Willfully abandon any personal property on the Airport. Any person who causes damage to Airport property shall be held liable for such damage. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-2.4 Entry to the AOA, SIDA or restricted areas. No person shall enter the AOA, a SIDA area or a restricted area of any County Airport except: (a)Persons who enter in accordance with security clearance pursuant to the security program established or authorized by the Department, for the particular Airport involved or; (b)Persons assigned duties on the AOA, a SIDA area or other restricted area of any County Airport bearing proper identification as approved and required herein, or; (c)Persons who are employees or authorized representatives of the Department or other federal, State or local governmental department or agency, having proper business thereon and bearing proper identification as approved and required herein. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 43, 44, 3-7-95) 25-2.5 Driving on AOA. No person shall drive upon the AOA at Miami International Airport, unless in accordance with subsections 25-2.4, 25-9.6 and 25-9.7 herein, and unless escorted at all times or be in possession of an AOA driver's permit issued by the Department, or at other County Airports in accordance with Operational Directives for such Airports. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 45, 3-7-95) 25-2.6 Coin-and currency-operated machines. No person shall use or attempt to use a coin- or currency-operated machine without first depositing the coins or currency required by the instructions on the machine. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-2.7 Use and enjoyment of Airport premises. (a)No person(s) singly or in association with others shall by his or their conduct or by congregating with others seek to obstruct, delay or unreasonably interfere with any other person or persons from the use and enjoyment of the Airport and its facilities or any part thereof, or seek to obstruct, delay, or unreasonably interfere with other person or persons from passage from place to place, or through entrances, exits or passageways on the Airport. (b)No person shall use, ride or drive a unicycle, a go-cart, roller skates, roller blades, or a skateboard on or at the Airport, and no person shall walk, drive a motor vehicle or ride a bicycle upon any area of an Airport made available to the public other than on roads, walks, or rights-of-way provided for such purpose. (c)No person, unless otherwise authorized by lease or Operational Directive, shall use, operate, drive or ride a boat, jet-skis, water scooters or like water vehicles on any waterway or body of water on an Airport nor shall Airport property be used for access of such water vehicle to a waterway or body of water on or adjacent to an Airport. Excluded from this restriction are water vehicles being used by a governmental agency for cleaning or policing such waterway or body of water. (d)No person, singly or in association with others, shall play any electronic or musical instrument, machine or other device in any public area of Terminal Building or on the Terminal Curbside in such a manner or so loudly as to prevent the quiet enjoyment of others or to cause others not to be able to reasonably hear private conversations and public address announcements, except as part of a musical performance authorized in writing by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 90-1, § 2, 1-16-90; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 46, 47, 3-7-95) 25-2.8 Picketing. (a)Lawful picketing, marching or demonstrations on the Airport may be conducted only upon Airport public roads, rights-of-way, streets or sidewalks, in accordance with reasonable procedures established by the Department. (b)It shall be unlawful to picket, march or demonstrate within the Terminal Building structure at Miami International Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-2.9 Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in or on any area, place or facility at an Airport, unless such person has a bona fide purpose for being in such area, place or facility, directly related to the normal and regular usage of such area, place or facility, in such a manner as to hinder or impede the orderly passage in or through or the normal or customary use of such area, place or facility by persons or vehicles entitled to such passage or use. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 48, 3-7-95) 25-2.10 Sanitation. (a)No person shall dispose of garbage, papers, refuse or other forms of trash, including cigarettes, cigars and matches, except in receptacles provided for such purpose. (b)No person shall dump or dispose of any fill, building material or any other material on any Airport, or in any canal or drainage ditch serving an Airport, except with prior approval of the Department and in such areas and under such conditions as are specifically designated. (c)No person shall use a comfort station or rest room, toilet or lavatory facility other than in a clean and sanitary manner.(d)No person shall deposit, blow, or spread any bodily discharge on the ground or pavement anywhere on the Airport or on any floor, wall, partition, furniture, or any other part of a public comfort station, Terminal Building, hangar, or other building on the Airport, other than directly into a fixture provided for that purpose. (e)No person shall place any foreign object in any plumbing fixture of a comfort station, Terminal Building, hangar, or other building on the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 49, 3-7-95) 25-2.11 Intoxication. (a)No person shall drink any intoxicating liquors upon any portion of the Airport open to the public, except in airline special service lounges or club rooms or in other places as shall be properly designated by the Director or by lease for on-premises liquor consumption. (b)No person under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs shall operate any motor vehicle or aircraft on the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-2.12 Drugs. No person, other than a duly qualified physician, a certified emergency medical technician (under the direction of a duly qualified physician or as provided by law), a registered nurse, or a duly qualified pharmacist shall, while on an Airport, prescribe, dispense, give away, or administer any controlled substance as defined from time to time by state or federal law to another or have such a drug in his possession, with intent to prescribe, dispense, sell, give away, or administer it to another. Such persons shall not be authorized to offer to sell or to sell such drugs except pursuant to a permit, license or agreement issued by the County. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 50, 3-7-95) 25-2.13 Model aircraft. No person shall operate or release any model aircraft, rocket, kite, balloon, parachute (other than in an emergency), or other similar contrivance at or upon the Airport without the prior written approval of the Director. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-2.14 Animals. (a)No person, other than a person who is blind, visually impaired or otherwise disabled, with a seeing eye or other specially trained dog, or a trained dog used for law enforcement purposes, under the control of an authorized law enforcement officer, shall enter the Terminal Building with a domestic animal, unless such animal is to be or has been transported by air and is kept restrained by a leash or otherwise confined so as to be completely under control. (b)No person shall enter any part of an Airport, with a domestic animal, unless such animal is kept restrained by a leash or is so confined as to be completely under control, whether or not such animal is to be or has been transported by air travel. No person shall bring, carry or deliver any wild animal under his control or custody into the Terminal Buildings of an Airport, without having first obtained a permit from the Department. (c)Except for animals that are to be or have been transported by air and are properly confined for air travel, no person shall permit any wild animal under his control or custody to enter the Airport. (d)No person other than in the conduct of an official act shall hunt, pursue, trap, catch, injure, or kill any animal on the Airport; provided, however, that fishing shall be permitted in designated areas. (e)No person shall ride horseback on the Airport without prior authorization of the Department.(f)No person shall permit, either willfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, any animal to urinate or defecate upon the sidewalks of the Airport or upon the floor of the Terminal Building or any other building used in common by the public. (g)No person shall feed or do any other act to encourage the congregation of birds or other animals on or in the vicinity of the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 51, 3-7-95) 25-2.15 Weapons. (a)No person, other than federal, State or local law enforcement officers on duty or unless otherwise duly authorized by law and the Department, shall carry or transport any weapon on the Airport in a manner contrary to governing law. (b)No person shall discharge any gun on the Airport, except in the performance of official duties requiring the discharge thereof or in the lawful defense of life or property. (c)No person shall furnish, give, sell or trade any weapon or simulated weapon on the Airport unless authorized under appropriate lease with or permit issued by the County or as authorized by law. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 52, 3-7-95; Ord. No. 10-24, § 2, 4-6-10) Note—Florida Statutes § 790.33, as amended, preempts and declares null and void all local ordinances, administrative regulations and rules in the field of firearms and ammunition, with limited exceptions set forth in § 790.33, as amended. 25-2.16 Lost articles. Any person finding lost articles at any Airport shall immediately deposit them with an authorized representative of the Department. Articles unclaimed by their proper owner within three (3) months thereafter shall, upon request, be turned over to the finder or otherwise be lawfully disposed of, in accordance with applicable law or Operational Directive. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to deny the right of scheduled air carriers or other Airport tenants to maintain "lost and found" services for property of their passengers, invitees or employees as permitted by law. Articles to which the owner or finder is not entitled to lawful possession shall be forfeited to the Department for disposal in accordance with the provisions of applicable law or County administrative order. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 53, 3-7-95) 25-2.17 Endangering aircraft or vehicle operations. No person shall throw, shoot or propel any object in such manner as to interfere with or endanger the safe operation of any aircraft landing at, taking off from or operating on the Airport or any vehicle operating on the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) Note—Florida Statutes § 790.33, as amended, preempts and declares null and void all local ordinances, administrative regulations and rules in the field of firearms and ammunition, with limited exceptions set forth in § 790.33, as amended. 25-2.17.1 Foreign objects on AOA. (a)The presence of foreign objects on any portion of the AOA presents a significant safety issue for aircraft and aircraft engines. Foreign objects include natural or manmade items, trash, debris, plastic or metal items or pieces thereof, and the like, any of which can cause damage to aircraft engines or aircraft either by being taken into an engine by reason of wind drafts created by such engine or else being wind-blown into an engine or against an aircraft. (b)No person shall place, deposit, or cause to be placed or deposited on any area of the AOA, or on any leasehold area in close proximity to or adjoining the AOA, any foreign object defined in subsection 25-2.17.1(a). (c)Any person who violates subsection (b) above, or who, being on the AOA and being then reasonably able to remove or cause the removal of a foreign object, or to dispose or cause the disposal of a foreign object into a suitable container on or off the AOA, shall be subject to confiscation of that person's identification badge in the manner provided in subsection 25-2.20(h), in addition to the penalty provisions provided for in this Chapter 25, including Section 25-2.26. (Ord. No. 96-80, § 1, 6-4-96) 25-2.18 False reports or threats. No person shall make any threat involving aircraft or any facilities or operations at or on the Airport or false report regarding the conduct of operations at or use of the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 54, 3-7-95) 25-2.19 Forgery and counterfeit. No person shall make, possess, use, offer for sale, sell, barter, exchange, pass, or deliver any forged, counterfeit, or falsely altered pass, permit, identification badge, certificate, placard, sign, or other authorization purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the Department, nor shall any information electronically or magnetically encoded thereon be knowingly altered or erased. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 55, 3-7-95) 25-2.20 Identification badges. (a)Those persons authorized to enter the AOA, any SIDA area or other restricted areas at Miami International Airport in accordance with subsections 25-2.4(b) and (c), or at any other County Airport, as established by Operational Directive, shall at all times possess an official identification badge issued or approved by the Department. Identification badges shall be worn conspicuously on the outer garment of the bearer, in plain view above the waist, unless otherwise authorized by the Department. (b)In the event an identification badge issued by the Department is damaged, lost, or stolen, the company which employs the person to which such was issued shall comply with procedures established by the Department and give immediate written notice of such occurrence to the Department. A duplicate badge shall not be reissued until such notice is received by the Department and either the employee or the employer has paid to the Department the established fee for the issuance of replacement identification badges. (c)All persons issued an identification badge by the Department, or the company employing such persons, shall pay the Department the established fee for the issuance of original or duplicate identification badges. The company employing persons issued identification badges by the Department shall be solely responsible for the prompt return of the identification badges of employees who have been terminated or transferred from their employment at the Airport, or whose return has been requested by the Department, and for paying to the Department the established fee for the failure to so return the identification badges of such employees. (d)No person to whom an approved identification badge has been issued by the Department for the purpose of entering the AOA, a SIDA area or other restricted areas of Miami International Airport or other County Airports shall transfer such badge to any other person or use such badge for personal purposes. (e)No person shall enter a restricted area at any Airport without possessing the appropriate color zone identification badge authorization for such access, unless otherwise specifically approved by the Department. (f)No person shall enter a restricted area at any Airport using an identification issued to any other person. In the event a person is discovered wearing the identification badge of another person, unless such other person has previously reported that their identification badge has been lost or stolen, both persons shall be considered to have violated the provisions of this section. (g)It shall be the responsibility of all persons working in restricted areas at any Airport to ensure that all other persons are properly wearing an appropriate identification badge at all times, in accordance with this section. A failure of a person to challenge another person in a restricted area not visibly wearing an identification badge shall be deemed a violation of this section. (h)Identification badges issued by the Department shall at all times remain the property of the County. As such, the Department shall at all times have the right to confiscate or demand the return of the identification badge of any person who violates the provisions of this chapter and to demand the return of the identification badges of all persons employed by a company violating this chapter or whose lease, permit or license agreement with the County allowing use of the Airport has expired or been cancelled or is terminated. The Department shall have the right to confiscate or demand the return of Department-issued identification badges for any violations by an individual of the Airport security program required by Federal Aviation Regulations. (i)Identification badges. In addition to a Code Inspector's right to issue civil violation notices (CVNs) under Chapter 8CC of the Code, any Code Inspector of the Department designated by the Director under Section 25-2.26(a) shall have the power to issue Departmental Safety Violation Notices (SVNs) to persons violating Chapter 25. SVNs shall be on forms established by the Department. Any person to whom an approved identification badge has been issued by the Department who on four occasions within a twelve month period is (a) issued an SVN for a violation of Chapter 25, or (b) issued a CVN and either pays the CVN, fails to appeal the CVN or is found guilty of the violation by a hearing officer, or (c) determined by a Code Inspector to have violated Section 25-9.3, 25-9.4, or 25-9.10(a) shall be required to surrender his or her badge for a period of time as may be determined by the Director by written policy. A person whose badge has been surrendered for any of the foregoing reasons shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Aviation Director or designee, in accordance with procedures established by the Aviation Department for appeals of decisions requiring the surrender of a badge. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 56, 57, 3-7-95; Ord. No. 10-24, § 3, 4-6-10) 25-2.21 Security devices and directives. No unauthorized person shall in any way tamper or interfere with a lock or closing mechanism of any door or gate at Miami International Airport or any other County Airport leading to the AOA, a SIDA area, a restricted area, a private leasehold or offices; nor shall any person otherwise knowingly breach, disobey or disregard any security directive, plan or program at the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 58, 3-7-95) 25-2.22 Elevators, moving stairways and moving walkways. No person shall use an elevator, moving stairway, moving walkway, fixed guideway vehicle or conveyance system contrary to its intended use or any posted restriction(s). (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 59, 3-7-95) 25-2.23 Consent to inspection. Any vehicle or motor vehicle and the contents thereof, entering, departing from, or being in the air operations area (AOA) or other restricted areas, shall be subject to inspection by the Director, designated Department employees, or any law enforcement officer, for the purposes of determining ownership of such vehicle and the contents thereof, and for examining the documentation relating thereto. The operation or use of a vehicle or motor vehicle by any person into, from or within the AOA or a restricted area of the Airport shall constitute the consent of the owner, operator and/or user of such vehicle to the aforesaid inspection. Inspections relating to U.S. Customs bonded cargo and customs seals shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the United States Customs Service. (Ord. No. 88-37, § 3, 5-3-88) 25-2.24 Inspections. No person shall enter the AOA or a restricted area of the Airport, except persons who enter pursuant to Section 25-2.4 of this chapter, or employees of federal, State or local government bodies then having proper business thereon and bearing proper identification. No person entering or attempting to enter, being within, or departing from or attempting to depart the AOA or restricted areas of the Airport, shall refuse to produce for inspection at the request of the Director, designated Department employee or any law enforcement officer, a Department identification badge or the contents, or both, of any vehicle, bag, case, parcel, box or container of any kind in his possession. Where the entry into or departure from or attempt thereof is by means of a vehicle or motor vehicle, no person shall refuse to produce for inspection, after such request, a driver's license or Department vehicle permit. No person shall refuse to produce at the request of the Director, designated Department employee or any law enforcement officer any document in his possession relating to the ownership or possession of cargo or freight upon entering, leaving or being within the AOA or any restricted area. (Ord. No. 88-37, § 3, 5-3-88) 25-2.25 Jostling. (a)For the purpose of this section, the term "personal property" shall mean wallets, purses, briefcases, carry-on luggage, parcels and any other materials hand carried by a person in the Terminal Building. (b)A person shall be guilty of "Jostling" when, in a public place, the person intentionally and unnecessarily:(1)Places his or her hand in the proximity of a person's personal property; or(2)Jostles, blocks, crowds or distracts another person(s) at a time when a third person's hand(s) are in proximity of the second person's personal property. (Ord. No. 95-41, § 60, 3-7-95) 25-2.26 Enforcement. (a)All Department employees so designated by the Director shall be responsible for enforcement of all provisions of Chapter 25 of the Code and shall be deemed Code Inspectors under Chapter 8CC of this Code. (b)In addition to and not in lieu of the penalties provided by Section 25-1.7, any person who violates any provision of Chapter 25 shall be subject to the civil penalties provided by Chapter 8CC. In addition to the provisions of Chapter 8CC of this Code regarding enforcement of civil penalties, failure of any violator to make timely payment of the civil penalty under Chapter 8CC, or make a timely appeal thereof, may, if the violator is authorized to enter SIDA areas of the Airports, result in the revocation of the violator's SIDA access or driving privileges. A person whose SIDA access privileges have been revoked shall have the right to appeal the revocation decision to the Aviation Director or designee, in accordance with procedures established by the Aviation Department for appeals of revocation decisions. (Ord. No. 95-41, § 61, 3-7-95; Ord. No. 10-24, § 4, 4-6-10) Sec. 25-3. Commercial activity.25-3.1 Soliciting or carrying on business. (a)No person, unless duly authorized in writing by the Board, the County Manager or the Department and unless payment of any fees or charges as established from time to time for such activity, shall be paid by such person, shall, in or upon any area of an Airport: (1)Engage in any business or commercial activity; or(2)Sell, or offer for sale, any merchandise, food, beverage or service; or(3)Solicit any business or trade, including the transportation of persons, baggage, or goods, the shining of shoes, or bootblacking; or (4)Sing, dance, or play any musical instrument; or(5)Install or place any coin, currency or debit or credit card operated machine for the sale or provision of any merchandise, food, beverage or service of any type or kind, without the prior written approval of the Department. (b)No person authorized to perform services on the Airport shall refuse to perform such services when requested by any orderly person to do so, except as authorized by federal or State law or regulations. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 88-37, § 4, 5-3-88; Ord. No. 95-41, § 62, 3-7-95) 25-3.2 Commercial photography, film and recordings. No person unless authorized in writing by the Department, or when appropriate by permit issued under Section 2-11.14 of this Code, shall take still, motion, or sound motion pictures or sound records or recordings of voices or otherwise for commercial, training or educational purposes, other than news coverage, in public areas of the terminal or on the public areas of any facility under the administration of the Department. As a condition of authorization, the Department may require reimbursement for its costs of personnel, equipment and/or supplies used in support of such activity, and may impose fair and equitable rental rates for extended use of any space under the administration of the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 76-112, § 4, 12-21-76; Ord. No. 95-41, § 63, 3-7-95) 25-3.3 Building construction and improvements. No person without written authorization from the Department, shall construct or cause to be constructed any buildings or structures, including signs, utility connection or any improvements, modifications (excluding maintenance), or additions to any such buildings or structures, or any paving, excavations, removal of soil or fill material or other improvement to land on the Airport, whether on leaseholds or elsewhere. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-3.4 Advertising. No person, unless authorized in writing by the Department, shall post or distribute commercial signs, advertisements, literature, circulars, pictures, sketches, drawings, handbills, or any other form of printed or written commercial matter or material at the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-3.5 Storage of property. (a)Unless otherwise provided in a lease or other written agreement or permit, no person shall use any area of the Airport for storage of cargo, aircraft, vehicles, motor vehicles, mobile equipment or other property without prior written permission of the Department. If such person uses such area for storage without first obtaining permission, the Department shall have such property removed and stored at the risk and expense of the owner or consignee thereof. (b)No person shall load cargo on or unload cargo from an aircraft, other than in designated areas established by Operational Directive issued by the Department, or in areas totally contained within an established leasehold or restricted area, authorized for such activity. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 64, 3-7-95) 25-3.6 Signs. No person, unless authorized by the Department, shall construct or install any sign at any Airport, unless such sign is a traffic-control device within a leasehold area and is in conformity with State and County regulations. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 65, 66, 3-7-95) 25-3.7 Protection of property. No person authorized to operate equipment, including but not limited to baggage carts, handcarts, wheelchairs, and powered transporters in the Terminal Building, shall do so unless such equipment is properly equipped with protective materials or devices to minimize damage to property and injury to persons. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 65, 3-7-95) 25-3.8 Tipping. No person authorized to accept tips for services performed at the Airport shall solicit a tip, or a specific amount of tip, nor harass, insult or display any form of rudeness to the person for whom the service is being performed. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 65, 3-7-95) Sec. 25-4. Ground transportation.25-4.1 Commercial vehicles. (a)Any taxicab licensed pursuant to Section 31-82 of the County Code and operating in compliance with the standards and conditions set forth in Section 31-93(d) of the County Code shall have the right to transport persons and their baggage from Miami International Airport. (b)Except for taxicabs as set forth in (a) above, no person shall utilize a vehicle for any commercial activity on the Airport, or transport persons, baggage, or goods or any combination thereof to or from Miami International Airport without a valid permit issued by the Department if the Department has issued an Operational Directive requiring such a permit. (c)No person shall operate a vehicle used in commercial activity contrary to posted signs, or contrary to the terms of any permit or Operational Directive issued by the Department. (d)Commercial vehicles operating on any Airport contrary to the terms of Operational Directives issued by the Department, or without permits required for such operation, will be subject to enforcement penalties. Violations shall be enforced by authorized law enforcement officers or authorized uniformed traffic enforcement employees of the Department and appropriate fines shall be levied as established by Operational Directives. (e)Nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize the operation of a vehicle for hire or courtesy vehicle in violation of any other provisions of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, specifically including but not limited to Chapter 31 (f)(1)Effective as of the date that the proposed consolidated Rental Car Facility located east of LeJeune Road to be designed and constructed by the Florida Department of Transportation as set forth in Resolution No. R-1268-99, is operational for the participating car rental companies having agreed to operate therein, all ground transportation courtesy vehicles by which customers of ground transportation companies are transported to or from Miami International Airport and the companies' places of business, shall be prohibited from operating on the lower and upper vehicular drives of such Airport and from picking up and dropping off their customers at any Airport facility or location other than the Rental Car Facility or the Miami Intermodal Center, as designated by Operational Directives. The term "ground transportation courtesy vehicles shall include cars, vans, buses or other forms of vehicular transportation, but shall not include taxis, demand shuttle vans or buses, or for-hire vehicles subject to Chapter 31 of the Miami-Dade County Code. The term "ground transportation companies" include but are not limited to car rental companies, parking lot operators, and hotels and motels. (2)Notwithstanding subsection (f)(1), the County Manager may exempt certain ground transportation companies from the prohibition contained in subsection (f)(1) and may permit such companies to pick up and drop off customers at a facility other than the Rental Car Facility or Miami Intermodal Center; provided, however, any such exemption shall be effective only after (a) a public hearing has been held at which all representatives of the ground transportation industry are invited to present their views, (b) the County Manager has determined that the exemption shall not adversely affect traffic congestion, air quality and passenger safety, and (c) such exemption has been set forth in an Administrative Order approved by the Board; provided further that any such exemption shall extend for a period of time and under such conditions as the County Manager determines; and provided further that no exemption from the requirements and restrictions of subsection (f)(1) shall be given under any circumstances to any car rental company. (3)The Aviation Director shall have the authority to issue an Operational Directive from time to time for the following purposes:(a)To provide for the use of the Terminal Building facilities and roadways by all ground transportation users during the Interim Period from the effective date of this ordinance to the date on which the Rental Car Facility is operational, and during the period thereafter; (b)To provide for the date on which the Rental Car Facility is deemed operational for purposes of requiring all ground transportation courtesy vehicles subject to this ordinance and the Operational Directive to access their customers at the Rental Car Facility and not at the Terminal Building or other Airport location; (c)To provide for all aspects of a temporary common shuttle vehicle operation between the Terminal Building and the Rental Car Facility by which ground transportation companies and their customers made subject to the Operational Directive make use of and pay for the costs of the common shuttle vehicle operation until the Airport's MIC MIA automated People Mover System is operational. The Operational Directive may permit the participating car rental companies to operate such a shuttle vehicle operation in their own name or names or through a company selected by them or may require selection of a company by the County through appropriate bidding procedures; (d)To provide for the use of and payment for the Rental Car Facility, its roadways, and the MIC-MIA People Mover System after the Rental Car Facility and the People Mover System become operational, such Operational Directive to apply to all users of the Rental Car Facility and People Mover system, including the participating car rental companies operating within the Rental Car Facility and all other car rental companies picking up and dropping off their customers at a location or locations outside of the Rental Car Facility as designated by such Operational Directive; and (e)To set forth the level of fees required to be paid by those car rental companies choosing to pick up and drop off their customers at the curbside or other designated location of the Rental Car Facility rather than to operate within such facility. Such fees may include a Customer Facility Charge or a percentage of gross revenues, or a combination of both. To the extent such fees are based on a percentage of gross revenues of such companies generated by customers picked up or dropped off at the Rental Car Facility, such fees may be less than but shall not exceed the percentage of gross revenues approved by the Board for car rental companies operating within the said Facility. (4)The Operational Directive shall require all car rental companies operating within the Rental Car Facility to charge and collect from their customers, commencing on and after the date on which the Rental Car Facility is operational, a Customer Facility Charge in the amount of not more than four dollars and sixty cents ($4.60) per day per car rental contract, and every fifth anniversary after such commencement date to increase such amount by an additional twenty-five cents ($0.25) per day per car rental contract, such Customer Facility Charge amounts to be further adjusted periodically so as to enable the County to meet all debt service payments on any loans for the acquisition of the property for and the design and construction of the Rental Car Facility, as well as operating and maintenance expenses related to the Rental Car Facility and allocated operating and maintenance expenses attributable to the MIC-MIA people mover system connecting the Rental Car Facility with the Airport's Terminal Building; provided, however, that any such periodic adjustments other than the twenty-five cent ($0.25) adjustment every five years shall be presented to the Board of County Commissioners for its review and approval, such adjustments to be approved if they are in accordance with the requirements of the Concession Agreement between the County and the participating car rental companies, the TIFIA Loan Agreement, and the determinations of anticipated debt service payments, operating and maintenance expenses of the RCF, and allocated expenses of the people mover system made thereunder. (5)The Operational Directive shall require that, (a) commencing no earlier than January 1, 2002, and expiring no later than the effective date of this Ordinance, all car rental companies operating at Miami International Airport that have agreed to serve as participating car rental companies in the Rental Car Facility shall charge and collect from their customers a Customer Facility Charge not to exceed three dollars and twenty-five cents ($3.25) per day per car rental contract, and (b) commencing as of the effective date of this Ordinance and expiring no later than the date the Customer Facility Charge under subsection (4) is effective, all such car rental companies shall charge and collect from their customers a Customer Facility Charge of four dollars ($4.00) per day per car rental contract, with such charges described in (a) and (b) of this subsection to be in addition to all other fees established by contract or Operational Directive, and with such interim Customer Facility Charges to be determined or confirmed by the Aviation Department and set forth in the Operational Directive, for the purpose of defraying ongoing costs applicable to the design and construction of the Rental Car Facility as well as existing costs to the Airport of providing facilities and services to such companies prior to the date on which the Rental Car Facility becomes operational and as additional payment for the companies' privilege of doing business at the Airport. The Operational Directive or contractual provision shall provide that, as to any such fees and to the extent permissible under federal law and any trust indenture applicable to the Airport, such fees shall be held by the Airport in a separate interest-bearing account for the purpose of defraying the costs of the Rental Car Facility. (6)Except as provided in (4) and (5) above, none of the fees payable for the use of the Rental Car Facility shall be deemed to be fees mandated by the County unless the Operational Directive states that designated fees are so mandated. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 79-25, § 15, 3-20-79; Ord. No. 81-85, § 4, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 88-37, §§ 5, 6, 5-3-88; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 67, 68, 3-7-95; Ord. No. 00-87, § 1, 7-6-00; Ord. No. 04-137, § 1, 7-13-04; Ord. No. 07-109, § 1, 7-24-07) 25-4.2 Rental cars. No person shall solicit or engage in the rental car for-hire vehicle business on the Airport without a valid permit issued by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 79-25, § 15, 3-20-79; Ord. No. 81-85, § 4, 7-21-81) Cross reference— Licensing and regulations of for-hire passenger motor vehicles generally, § 31-81 et seq. Sec. 25-5. Public health.25-5.1 Application. The applicable health laws and regulations of the United States of America, the State of Florida, the County of Dade, and these rules and regulations shall apply to all persons and establishments, whether on or off an Airport, if such persons or establishments are engaged in activities affecting the Airport involving food and beverage service, drinking water service, handling, storage or disposal of water or refuse or any other activity which has a potentially deleterious effect on public health, e.g., food quality, water quality, air quality, or sanitary sewage and industrial waste water or storm water systems. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 69, 3-7-95) 25-5.2 Food and beverage service. All matters of public health at the Airport are subject to the applicable United States Public Health Service, Florida State Board of Health and Dade County Department of Health regulations and policies. (a)Any persons authorized to engage in food and beverage service on the Airport, whether from locations on or off the Airport, to Airport employees, airline passengers or the general public shall secure all required health agency licenses and shall abide by all rules and regulations of such agencies. (b)All food and beverage establishments, whether on or off the Airport in fixed or mobile operations, engaged in food and beverage service to intrastate, interstate, or international aircraft, shall abide by all rules and regulations of appropriate federal, state, and local agencies. (c)No person shall remove, from an aircraft, any food, garbage or trash, except as authorized under federal, State and/or local health regulations. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 70, 3-7-95) 25-5.3 Control of aircraft drinking water. (a)The water piping system in aircraft servicing areas shall be under adequate positive pressure at all times with a vacuum break or approved back-flow prevention device installed to prevent siphoning, and there shall be no cross connections between the potable water system and a system of questionable quality. All drinking and culinary water used in connection with the operation of aircraft in interstate, intrastate, or international commerce shall come from sources approved by the United States Public Health Service, the Florida State Board of Health or the Dade County Department of Public Health; and the installation of all aircraft water piping systems shall comply with the requirements established by these agencies. (b)Potable water supply points on servicing piers or other locations on the Airport labeled "Aircraft Drinking Water Only" or similar wording indicating the same intent, whether the transfer of water is by direct connection from the hose bib to a mounted hose reel or by portable water truck or cart, shall be used for no other purpose, except in an emergency. (c)Hoses used to deliver potable water to aircraft shall be constructed of such material and stored and handled in such manner as prescribed by the United States Public Health Service regulations, and used for no other purpose. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 71, 3-7-95) 25-5.4 Handling and disposal of sanitary waste from aircraft. (a)When a removable sanitary waste can is removed from an aircraft, the contents of such can shall be securely enclosed or covered while being transported to a facility for emptying and cleaning. (b)The sanitary waste accumulated in the fixed waste retention tank on an aircraft shall be discharged through a flexible hose, with a watertight connection to a portable water-tight tank, in order to avoid contamination of the area. Flushing of the retention tank must never be accomplished by direct connection to a potable water distribution system. (c)All aircraft sanitary waste cans and retention tanks shall be serviced in approved servicing areas only.(d)All ground facilities and operations for the disposal of sanitary waste and for the cleaning of sanitary waste cans and fixed waste-retention tanks, and all sanitary waste trucks or carts, shall be emptied, flushed, cleaned, and the rinse compartments of same filled at approved servicing areas only. (e)No water hydrant on the Airport shall be used to service a sanitary waste truck or cart.(f)All connections in an aircraft sanitary waste discharge line or sanitary tank servicing equipment shall be equipped with positive seals to prevent spillage. (g)When a defect in an aircraft sanitary waste discharge valve or in a waste tank servicing equipment results in sanitary water spillage or when an improper or illegal discharge of sanitary waste has been made into equipment (valve) pits on the AOA, it shall be the responsibility of the aircraft owner or operator to immediately clean and decontaminate the equipment and ground area soiled. The defective components shall be repaired or replaced before the discharge valve or servicing equipment is placed back in service. The Department may clean up as necessary upon failure by the owner or operator to do so and charge the cost thereof, plus an administrative fee of twenty-five (25) percent, to the owner and/or operator. (h)The owners or operators of sanitary waste tank trucks shall make any alterations to or add any equipment to such trucks as required by the Department, the Department of Public Health or Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management, for the sanitary operation of the aircraft sanitary waste disposal system. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 72, 73, 3-7-95) 25-5.5 Handling of aircraft and Airport refuse. (a)Receptacles used for the storage of aircraft galley paper and liquid waste, as well as garbage and refuse accumulating from operations in aircraft servicing areas, shall be stored, in accordance with standards and procedures approved by all appropriate federal, State and local public agencies. (b)Garbage and refuse containers used in the Terminal Building areas shall be of a type and design approved by the Department, with the design compatible to the use and location, so as to preclude odor, insects, and vermin. Type, design and location shall assure no interference with the safe operation of vehicles and/or aircraft operating in its vicinity, and comply with reasonable standards established by the Department. (c)Under no conditions shall open drums or containers be used for storage of garbage or refuse on the Airport.(d)The open storage or placement on the Airport of any receptacle, equipment or material, including rubber tires, that holds water and is conducive to mosquito or rodent harborage or breeding is prohibited. (e)All aircraft and Airport refuse other than sanitary waste shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable County, State and federal standards and procedures. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-5.6 Waste removal services. (a)All operators of waste removal services on the Airport shall secure a permit from the Director and written approval from the Dade County Department of Public Health as to the suitability of the waste removal vehicle, compactors and/or containers. (b)No vehicle used for hauling trash, dirt or any other waste materials shall be operated on the Airport unless such vehicle is constructed and equipped so as to prevent the contents thereof from blowing, dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom. Approved waste, trash, and garbage compactors and containers shall be allowed at designated locations only. Such areas shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times by the person in control thereof. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-5.7 Water pollution. No person shall introduce, or cause or permit to be introduced, in any water system or any surface or underground water at the Airport, any organic or inorganic matter or deleterious substance in such quantity, proportions, or accumulations which are injurious to human, plant, animal, fish or other aquatic life, or property, or which unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life or property, or the conduct of business on the Airport. The types and permissible quantities of discharge shall be governed by the then applicable water discharge standards as promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, or under any amendment or successor legislation thereto, or as established by State statute or County ordinance, whichever be the most stringent. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-5.8 Air pollution. (a)No person shall introduce, or cause or permit to be introduced in the outdoor atmosphere or about an Airport any one or more air contaminants or combinations thereof, by burning or otherwise, in such quantities and of such duration as to be injurious to human, plant, or animal life, or property, or which unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property or the conduct of business on the Airport, or which in any way interferes with the operation of aircraft on the ground or in the air. The types and permissible quantities of discharge into the air shall be governed by the then applicable atmospheric discharge standards as promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency under the Federal Clean Air Act of 1980, or under any amendment or successor legislation thereto, or as established by State statute or County ordinance, whichever be the most stringent. (b)All motor operated vehicles used on a regular basis or stationed at an Airport shall comply with Chapter 24 of the Code regarding prohibitions against motor vehicles as sources of air pollution. While on Airport property, it shall be unlawful for the owner of a commercial vehicle to be operated which: (1)Emits air contaminants as dark as or darker in shade than that designed as number one on the Ringelmann Chart or of such an opacity equal to or greater than twenty (20) percent for longer than ten (10) consecutive seconds; or (2)Has had any of its emission control devices, as installed at the time of manufacture, removed, disconnected and/or disabled; or (3)Is powered by any fuel that may defeat the design purpose of the vehicle's emission control devices, including but not limited to leaded gasoline used in a commercial vehicle designed to be powered by unleaded gasoline. Any vehicle found to be in violation of the above will be subject to fines and penalties and will be immediately prohibited from operating at an Airport until such deficiency has been corrected and the vehicle has been recertified by the Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management or any other authorized government agency. In addition, the Department may through Operational Directive impose further restrictions to a classified group of vehicles if the Department determines the emissions from any such group constitutes an environmental hazard. (c)Operators of all motor vehicles at the terminal shall turn off the vehicle's engine when such vehicle is parked or is waiting other than at a traffic-control device, requiring the vehicle to stop temporarily, or to permit safe passage of persons or other vehicles. Emergency (police and fire) vehicles are exempt under this subsection when the operator of the vehicle is in close proximity to the vehicle, or when a person or police canine is in the vehicle. (d)Operators of aircraft at the Airport shall turn off the aircraft engine or engines when such aircraft is not actively being taxied or checked in conjunction with maintenance procedures, except for onboard aircraft power units (APU). (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 74—77, 3-7-95) 25-5.9 Sanitary sewage and industrial waste water system pollution. No person, whether on or off an Airport premises, shall introduce or cause or permit to be introduced, in any sanitary sewage and industrial waste water or storm water system under the jurisdiction of the Department, any deleterious substance in such quantities, and for such duration as is or may be injurious to human, plant or animal life, or property, or which unreasonably interferes with the maintenance or operation of the Airport or the County sewage system. The types and permissible quantities of discharge shall be governed by the then applicable sewage discharge standards for sanitary sewage and industrial waste water and storm water systems as promulgated by the appropriate Federal, State and County agencies, whichever are the most stringent. Such effluent shall be discharged only into authorized sewage and waste disposal systems as are provided for such purpose and shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Department and appropriate controlling agencies. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 78, 3-7-95) 25-5.10 Quarantine. International passenger quarantine, animal quarantine and disposition of diseased animals or plants shall be conducted in conformity with all applicable federal, State and County laws and regulations. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) Sec. 25-6. Safety hazards, dangerous articles and fueling operations.25-6.1 Cleaning of equipment. No person shall use flammable liquids in the cleaning of aircraft or aircraft engines, propellers or other appliances, equipment or parts of aircraft, unless such cleaning operations are conducted in accordance with National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) standards and all applicable Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.2 Open-flame operations. No person shall conduct any open-flame operations in any area on an Airport unless specifically approved in writing by the Department. Any such activities, if authorized, shall be conducted in strict accordance with NFPA standards, the Department's authorization and applicable Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 79, 3-7-95) 25-6.3 Powder-activated tools. No person shall use powder-activated tools or fastening devices any place on the Airport without prior written authorization of the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.4 Storage of material. (a)No person shall keep or store material or equipment in such manner as to constitute a fire hazard or be in violation of applicable Dade County codes or Operational Directives of the Department. (b)All storage of material in buildings shall be arranged in height not to extend above the lower or bottom cord of roof trusses and shall not be closer than eighteen (18) inches below sprinkler heads. Storage areas shall provide aisles adequate for passage of Fire Department personnel and equipment throughout the area and between such storage areas and all outside walls. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 80, 3-7-95) 25-6.5 Storage of hazardous material. No person shall keep or store any flammable liquids, gases, explosives, signal flares or other hazardous material on an Airport, except in containers and receptacles, and in structures or areas, specifically approved for such storage, in compliance with the requirements of NFPA standards, Federal Aviation Regulations and applicable Dade County codes and as provided in subsection 25-6.22(a) and (b). (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 81, 3-7-95) 25-6.6 Lubricating oil. (a)No person shall keep or store lubricating oils on the Airport, except in containers and receptacles, designed for such purpose, and in structures or areas specifically approved for such storage in compliance with the requirements of the NFPA standards, Federal Aviation Regulations and applicable Dade County codes. (b)No person shall transport lubricating oils to points of use except in safety cans or vehicles approved for such purpose by applicable Dade County codes. (c)No person shall store empty lubricating oil drums or cans except in approved areas.(d)No hydrocarbon products, oil-water mixtures with concentrations of greater than five (5) parts per million hydrocarbons or other industrial waste water shall be dumped or permitted to drain onto paved or unpaved surface areas of the Airport, directly into Airport drainage ditches, canals, rivers, ponding areas, into Airport storm drains, or directly into the sanitary sewer system. Such matter shall be discharged only into approved industrial waste water collection and treatment systems or disposed of in an alternate manner approved by the Department or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 82, 3-7-95) 25-6.7 Waste. Lessees of hangars, aircraft servicing or maintenance buildings, the Terminal Building, or other Airport areas shall provide suitable metal safety receptacles with operating, self-closing covers for the storage of oily wastes, rags and other rubbish and trash. Unless such requirement is waived in writing by the Department, all exterior waste storage and receptacle areas shall be screened from public view, including from aircraft. All waste within this general classification shall be removed by the lessees from the Airport premises daily, or as required by applicable Dade County codes, whichever shall be the more stringent. (Ord. No. 95-41, § 83, 3-7-95) 25-6.8 Smoking. No person shall smoke or carry lighted cigars, cigarettes, pipes, matches or any open flame inside any facility or leasehold designated for bulk fuel storage (a "tank farm") or within fifty (50) feet of any aircraft, or the nearest point of an aircraft being fueled or defueled, or of the site of a flammable liquid spill unless such person is in a building or other enclosed area where smoking is not prohibited. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 84, 3-7-95) 25-6.9 Cleaning fluids. (a)No person shall use flammable substances for cleaning hangars or other buildings on the Airport.(b)No person shall store flammable cleaning fluids, except in containers with dispensing devices approved by NFPA standards and applicable Dade County codes. (c)No person shall transport flammable cleaning fluids to points of use except in safety cans approved by NFPA standards and applicable Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.10 Leasehold cleanliness. All lessees on the Airport shall keep all areas of the premises leased or used by them clean and free of oil, grease and other flammable material. The floors of hangars and other buildings shall be kept clean and continuously kept free of rags, waste material or other trash or rubbish. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.11 Care of aircraft ramp, apron and parking areas. Any person, including the owners or operators of aircraft and into-plane fuelers, causing overflowing or spilling of oil, grease, fuel, sanitary waste water, any hazardous material or any similar material anywhere on an Airport, shall be responsible for the immediate clean-up of such spillage and notification as required by subsection 25-6.23(e). Upon the default of the responsible person to clean such area, the Department, or other authorized representative of the County, shall provide the necessary cleaning and charge the responsible person for the expense thereof. In the event of a spill which occurred in connection with the fueling or defueling of an aircraft, the responsible party, for purpose of billing for Department incurred clean-up costs, shall be the party named in the "Fuel Spill Incident Report," prepared by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 85, 3-7-95) 25-6.12 Doping, spray painting and paint stripping. (a)No person shall perform doping processes, spray painting, or paint stripping except in areas or facilities approved for such purposes under NFPA standards and applicable Dade County codes. (b)No person shall enter or work in a dope room while doping is in process, or in a spray-painting room or area while spray painting is being conducted, unless such person is properly clothed for purposes of safety and self-protection in accordance with NFPA standards and applicable Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.13 Fire extinguishers. No person shall tamper with fire-extinguishing equipment at the Airport at any time, nor use such equipment for any purpose other than firefighting or emergency fire prevention. All fire-extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in accordance with the adopted recommendations of NFPA, and other applicable Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.14 Use of potentially wind-borne materials. No person shall use any material, such as oil absorbent or similar material, in such a manner as will create a hazard to persons or property when picked up, swirled or blown about by the blast from an aircraft engine or by a wind. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 86, 3-7-95) 25-6.15 Operating motor vehicles in hangars. No person, except in an emergency, shall operate a tractor, tug, or other motor vehicle in any hangar or other building used for aircraft maintenance facility when an aircraft is present, unless the exhaust system of such tractor, tug, or other motor vehicle is protected by screens or baffles to prevent the escape of sparks or the propagation of flame, in accordance with requirements of NFPA standards and applicable Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.16 Grounding of aircraft in hangars. No person shall park an aircraft in any hangar or other structure on the Airport, unless the aircraft is grounded in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Aviation Regulations, NFPA standards and applicable Dade County codes as specified in Operational Directives. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.17 Motorized ground equipment near aircraft. No person shall park motorized ground equipment near any aircraft in such manner so as to prevent it or other ground equipment from being readily driven or towed away from the aircraft in case of an emergency. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.18 Repairing of aircraft. No person shall repair an aircraft or aircraft engine, propeller, or other aircraft apparatus in any area of an Airport other than an area leased for such purpose or areas, if any, specifically designated by posted sign or Operational Directive for such purpose, except that minor adjustments or repairs may be made while the aircraft is at an aircraft parking position, stand or apron being prepared for departure. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 87, 3-7-95) 25-6.19 Operating aircraft engines in hangars. The starting or operating of aircraft engines, including on-board auxiliary power units (APU's), inside any hangar, other than the air rotation of jet engines without ignition, is prohibited. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 88, 3-7-95) 25-6.20 Heating systems in hangars. Heating in any hangar shall be only by approved systems or devices as listed by the Underwriters Laboratories as suitable for use in aircraft hangars, and shall be installed in the manner prescribed by applicable Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.21 Electrical equipment and lighting systems. (a)Explosion-proof or vapor-proof electrical equipment shall be used as required in areas defined as hazardous by NFPA or Dade County codes. No portable lamp assembly shall be used in any maintenance shelter or hangar without a proper protective guard or shield over such lamp assembly to prevent breakage. (b)All electric power-operated tools and equipment shall be shut off while not in actual use.(c)Electrical lighting systems in hangars, aircraft maintenance facilities or other areas where explosive fumes are present shall be as required by NFPA standards and Dade County codes. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-6.22 Explosives, corrosives, poisons, compressed gases, and radiological materials. (a)No person shall store, keep, handle, use, dispense or transport at, to or from the Airport any Class A explosive (as defined by the "Hazardous Material Regulation of the Department of Transportation"). (b)No person shall store, keep, handle, use, dispense or transport at, to or from the Airport any Class B or Class C explosive, Class A poison, or red label materials (as defined by the "Hazardous Material Regulation of the Department of Transportation") in a manner other than in conformity with the applicable regulations of the Air Transport Association of America, the International Air Transport Association, the United States Department of Transportation, and the recommendations of the National Fire Protection Association. (c)Other than for emergency purposes as defined by Federal Aviation Regulations, no person shall carry a compressed air or gas tank aboard a commercial aircraft, unless such tank is reduced to zero pressure, or is an integral component of the aircraft system. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 89, 3-7-95) 25-6.23 Fueling and defueling. The following rules shall govern and control the fueling and defueling of aircraft and motor vehicles at the Airport: (a)No person shall fuel or defuel an aircraft while an operating engine of such aircraft is running; provided, however, that nothing herein shall prohibit fueling or defueling of an aircraft during aircraft APU operations, and provided further in a situation resulting from an inoperative on-board APU, a jet engine mounted at the rear of the aircraft or on the wing on the side opposite the fueling point may be operated to provide aircraft electrical power during fueling, provided: (1)The operation follows procedures published by the manufacturer of the aircraft and its operator to assure safety of the operation.(2)Prior approval is obtained from the Department's Airport operations office.(3)The Fire Department is on standby watch at the aircraft involved.(b)As specified by NFPA standards, no person shall place into operation any electrical appliance in an aircraft when the aircraft is being fueled or defueled. (c)No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled unless the aircraft and the fuel dispensing apparatus shall both be electrically grounded or bonded as required by Federal Aviation Regulations, NFPA standards, Dade County ordinances, and applicable Operational Directives. (d)When a fuel spill over five (5) feet in diameter occurs, the Fire Department shall be notified immediately and valves and dome covers shall be shut down. If the engine of the fueling vehicle is running at the time of the fuel spill, the vehicle shall be removed from the area unless contrary orders are issued by the senior fire officer at the scene. Conversely, if the engine of a fueling vehicle is shut down at the time of the fuel spill, it shall remain shut down unless a fire has already started or until the senior fire officer at the scene orders the vehicle moved. In no event shall fueling or defueling operations resume following a fuel spill until all areas upon which fuel has spilled or flowed over are thoroughly flushed and the senior fire official at the spill site has issued an order permitting the resumption of fueling operations. (e)No passenger shall be permitted in any aircraft during fueling or defueling, unless a cabin attendant is present at or near the cabin door and unless a passenger boarding ramp or bridge is in place at the cabin door. (f)No person shall use any material within fifty (50) feet of the nearest point of an aircraft during fueling or defueling of the aircraft which may cause a static spark. (g)No person shall engage in aircraft fueling and defueling operations without adequate fire extinguishers within ready reach.(h)No person shall start the engine of any aircraft when there is a flammable liquid on the ground in the vicinity of such aircraft.(i)No person shall fuel or defuel an aircraft with fueling hoses and other equipment or apparatus which are not in a safe, sound and nonleaking condition in accordance with NFPA standards. (j)All hoses, funnels, and appurtenances used in fueling and defueling operations shall be equipped with a positive grounding device in good order to prevent ignition of flammable liquids due to static spark. (k)The fueling and defueling of aircraft shall be conducted at a distance of at least fifty (50) feet from any hangar or other building unless at a Terminal aircraft loading/unloading gate or fifty (50) feet from any combustion or ventilation air intake to any boiler, heater, or incinerator room in accordance with NFPA standards. (l)Maintenance and testing of aircraft fueling systems shall be conducted under controlled conditions, in strict compliance with NFPA 410(C) or subsequent replacement publications. (m)Refueling vehicles shall be stored and maintained outdoors in areas authorized by the Department, except for the accomplishment of minor adjustments or repairs necessary to move such units to the storage area when failure occurs elsewhere on the Airport. No fuel trucks, empty or otherwise, shall be brought into, kept or stored within any building at the Airport, unless said building is used exclusively for that purpose, or in those instances under controlled conditions during approved fueling and defueling operations. (n)No fueling vehicles other than hydrant carts shall be backed within twenty (20) feet of an aircraft, unless a person is present outside the fueling vehicle to assist the operator thereof. (o)When a fire occurs in or near a fuel delivery device while servicing an aircraft, the Fire Department shall be notified immediately, fueling shall be discontinued immediately, emergency valves and dome covers shall be shut down at once and the fueling vehicles and equipment shall immediately be removed from the vicinity of the aircraft unless deemed unsafe. Any persons on board the aircraft shall be evacuated and other equipment removed from the area. If necessary, the aircraft shall be towed to a position at a safe distance from buildings and other aircraft. Upon his arrival the senior fire officer will be in charge. (p)The transfer of fuel from one fuel service vehicle to another (commonly referred to as "tankering") is prohibited within the AOA, except for emergency conditions under the standby watch of the Fire Department, and except for the required resupply of a service vehicle in conjunction with the supply of large quantities of fuel; e.g. for wide-bodied aircraft; provided, however, that all equipment and aircraft must be properly grounded. (q)No airborne radar equipment shall be operated or ground tested in any area on the Airport where the directional beam of high intensity radar is within three hundred (300) feet, or the low intensity beam is within one hundred (100) feet, of an aircraft fueling operation, aircraft fueling truck, or aircraft fuel or flammable liquid storage facility, unless an approved shielding device is provided and used during the radar operation. (r)Aircraft fueling vehicles shall be equipped with storage tanks which are sectionalized into compartments of not over two thousand (2,000) gallons' capacity or in lieu thereof shall be equipped and operated in accordance with alternate procedures approved, in writing, by the Department. Fueling vehicles, which are not in compliance with the requirement for sectionalization or for which alternate full operational procedures have not been approved, may be authorized for continued use only on a restricted basis and only upon specific individual authorization by the Department, in writing. (Ord. No. 77-88, § 1, 12-6-77) (s)Motor vehicles shall be fueled on the Airport only from approved locations and dispensing devices.(t)Yearly safety inspection shall mean inspection of equipment and vehicles operated on the AOA for emission controls and safety items such as lights, brakes, windshields, tires, and the like. All safety items shall be in good working order. (u)The use of automobile fuel products is prohibited for use in aircraft, unless the aircraft is individually certified for the use of such fuel. (v)No person shall vend, sell, or offer for sale on an Airport any petroleum fuel or lubricating product without authorization in writing from the Department. (w)No person shall transport onto an Airport, other than by aircraft for use in such aircraft, any fuel product or lubricating product, unless authorized in writing by the Department. Notwithstanding the above, aircraft owners shall not be denied the right to bring fuel and lubricating products onto an Airport for the purpose of self-fueling, provided the transport of the fuel and lubricating products onto the Airport and the self-fueling activities are otherwise in compliance with this chapter and applicable fire and environmental codes, and are otherwise authorized by the lessee of the premises on which such self-fueling activity occurs. (x)No person shall transport onto an Airport. other than by aircraft for use in such aircraft, any fuel product or flammable material unless in approved containers or vehicles. (z)All persons fueling aircraft at any gate parking position that is equipped with an operable fuel hydrant connected to the underground fueling system, shall use such hydrant system for aircraft fueling, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Department on a case-by-case basis. The applicable Standards and Recommendations of the National Fire Protection Association, as they are amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 90—94, 3-7-95) Sec. 25-7. Tenant obligations.25-7.1 Structural and decorative changes. No Airport tenant or lessee shall make or cause to be made any new construction, alterations, additions or improvements of any nature whatsoever, including signs, on or to any leased premises without prior written authorization of the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-7.2 Damages. All Airport tenants and lessees shall be fully responsible for the repair of all damages to buildings, equipment, real property, and appurtenances on their leased premises, resulting from its operations or the actions of its employees, agents, licensees or guests. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-7.3 Use of premises. No Airport tenant or lessee shall use or permit its leased premises to be used or occupied for any purpose not authorized by its lease or as prohibited by this chapter (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 95, 3-7-95) 25-7.4 Trailers, trucks; restricted use. No person shall use or permit the use of any trailed vehicle, truck, bus or van-type vehicle on any Airport for office, storage space, maintenance shop or similar purpose, unless specifically authorized by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-7.5 Protection of leased areas. (a)No Airport tenant under whose control are any vehicle or personnel gates, doors or any other means of ingress and egress to the AOA or SIDA area at Miami International Airport or at any other County Airport which has a fenced, secured AOA, shall fail to keep the same secured or controlled at all times to prevent the access of unauthorized persons to the AOA. Airport tenants shall be responsible for control and prevention of unauthorized access to the AOA or the leasehold areas of other tenants from the tenant's leased premises. (b)No Airport tenant under whose control are any vehicle or personnel gates, doors or other means of ingress or egress to or from the AOA or a SIDA area at Miami International Airport shall fail at all times to have in effect a positive access control program. In no event shall tenant-controlled keys, lock combinations, or the like be allowed off the leased premises without such tenant's knowledge and consent. (c)The internal security of leased areas at the Airport shall remain the sole responsibility of the lessee. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 96, 3-7-95) 25-7.6 Common use areas. (a)No Airport tenant or other authorized Airport user shall utilize a common use area, including an aircraft gate position in a manner which interferes with the use of such area by another or which departs from established and authorized procedures for the use of such area. (b)No Airport tenant or other authorized Airport user shall utilize a common use area, including an aircraft gate position, unless properly trained and authorized personnel supplied by such tenant or user are present for purposes of control and coordination during all periods of such use. (c)Upon occupancy of any common use aircraft gate position, the user assumes full responsibility for compliance with Federal and local security requirements and shall be liable for all fines and penalties resulting from failure to perform or abide by same. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 97, 98, 3-7-95) 25-7.7 Public service. (a)Aircraft owners and operators utilizing the Terminal at Miami International Airport shall provide, directly or under contract with others, a full range of services, including, but not limited to, porter service, wheelchair services, screening and security services as required by Federal Aviation Regulations, required by its passengers in connection with their use of the Airport. Minimum standards may be established by Operational Directive of the Department. (b)All Terminal employees, including but not limited to counter and gate agents, porters and security screening, whose prime responsibility is direct service to the public, shall, in addition to any Department issued identification badge, display clearly discernible employer issued personal identification such as a nameplate and company identification on his or her outer garments, in plain view above the waist. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 99, 3-7-95) Sec. 25-8. Control of landside traffic.25-8.1 Governing law. The regulation of all traffic using Airport roadways and parking facilities shall be governed by the applicable provisions (including definitions) of the Florida Statutes, Chapter 30 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida, and this chapter. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-8.2 Traffic-control devices. No person shall operate a vehicle on the upper or lower vehicle drives of the Terminal at Miami International Airport or on any roadways on an Airport, in violation of official traffic-control devices. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 100, 3-7-95) 25-8.3 Parking. (a)No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on the upper or lower vehicular drives at the Terminal Building at Miami International Airport, in violation of any official traffic-control device or an oral directive provided by an authorized law enforcement officer or an authorized uniformed traffic enforcement employee of the Department. (b)No person operating a commercial vehicle for hire shall load or unload persons at curbside loading zones not designated for such purpose for such classification of service within the Terminal Building area of Miami International Airport. Such loading and unloading zones and any restricted use by authorized commercial vehicles, or other vehicles shall be established by the Department and shall be designated by appropriate traffic-control devices, signs or Operational Directives. (c)No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on any Airport roadway or in a curbside area at the terminal, unless so permitted or required by an official traffic-control device or pursuant to subsection 25-8.3(b) above. (d)No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle on the upper or lower vehicular drives at the Terminal Building at Miami International Airport, for the purpose of making deliveries of goods, wares or merchandise to the Terminal Building except during times or in areas designated by the Department, or as otherwise posted. (e)No person shall park or stop a trailer, semitrailer, cargo trailer or other vehicle at any loading pier or dock at the Airport except for the purpose of the immediate loading or unloading of such vehicle, unless otherwise authorized by the Department. (f)No person shall park or stop a vehicle at the Airport in such a manner as to block any Airport roadway or otherwise impede the normal flow of vehicular traffic on any Airport roadway, including those roadways to, from or within any Airport facility, without prior notification of and authorization by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 101, 3-7-95) 25-8.4 Airport parking facilities. (a)No person shall enter or use an Airport motor vehicle parking facility or parking space contrary to its posted or restricted use. (b)No person shall stop, park or leave a vehicle unattended in any Airport motor vehicle parking facility or parking space or area without having positioned said vehicle in a designated stall or area in such a manner as not to obstruct the proper movement of other vehicles in the parking facility or area or utilization by other vehicles of driveways or adjacent parking spaces. (c)Public parking facilities.(1)No person shall park or leave a vehicle unattended in any motor vehicle parking facility, open to the public, without having properly secured a required parking claim check or having paid the required toll, in the case of metered or similarly controlled parking areas. (2)No person shall remove or attempt to remove any vehicle from an Airport parking facility open to the public without making payment of the parking charge established by the Board, unless authorized by the Department. (3)No person, unless authorized by the Department, shall remove or attempt to remove a claim check from an Airport parking facility claim check dispensing machine, other than as an operator of a vehicle entering an Airport parking facility, in which case, such person shall remove only one (1) claim check from the dispensing machine. (4)It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a claim check or checks from, or to otherwise operate, an Airport parking facility claim check dispensing machine, for the purpose of avoiding or enabling another person to avoid payment of the lawful charge of the use of said parking facilities. (5)No person shall remove or attempt to remove a vehicle from an Airport parking facility by presenting a claim check other than the claim check originally dispensed to the operator of such vehicle at the time that vehicle entered the parking facility. (6)No person shall present a parking claim check requiring payment of parking fees upon exiting a motor vehicle parking facility which does not indicate an accurate record of the length of time said vehicle was actually within the parking facility for which the time and charges have accrued, inaccuracies of time recording equipment excepted. (d)Employee parking facilities.(1)No person shall park or operate a vehicle on any Airport parking facility established or authorized for the use of persons employed at the Airport without complying with all procedures established by the Department for the control of such vehicle and for the use of such parking facility. (2)No person shall enter such employee parking facilities or use the transportation service provided in support thereof unless possessing and displaying, if requested a valid identification badge issued or approved by the Department. (3)No person shall allow any other person to use their identification badge, their vehicle and/or vehicle parking decal in order for the other person to use any Airport public or employee parking facility or any employee transportation service. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 102—104, 3-7-95) 25-8.5 Removal of vehicles. (a)Either law enforcement officers employed by the County's Police Department or specifically designated employees of the Department are authorized to immediately remove or cause the removal of any vehicle, when such vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of these rules and regulations. The operator of any Airport parking facility is authorized to remove or cause the removal of any vehicle from such parking facility to said designated impoundment area when such vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of subsection 25-8.4 of this chapter. Vehicles so removed shall be temporarily impounded on Airport property until the owner has complied with recovery provisions established by the Department or the vehicle is disposed of in accordance with applicable state or local requirements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, a vehicle parked in any area or zone designated by signs as a "no parking zone," or "tow away zone," or "parking prohibited" may be removed in accordance with this section. (b)Whenever any vehicle is moved to the aforementioned temporary impoundment area, a written report of such removal shall promptly be made in accordance with Operational Directives issued by the Department. (c)The owner of any vehicle so removed to a temporary impoundment area, or his authorized representative, may recover possession of such vehicle within seven (7) days after its removal to the temporary impoundment area (unless such period is extended by the Department), upon acceptable proof of ownership and payment of appropriate parking charges accrued up to the time of removal and further payment of storage and towing charges incident to such removal at the Airport. Charges for towing and storage of removed vehicles shall be those approved or authorized by the Board from time to time and posted at the vehicle recovery area. (d)In the event any such vehicle is not recovered by its owner or his authorized representative from the temporary impoundment area within the period established in subsection 25-8.5(c) above, such vehicle may be considered as abandoned and removed from the temporary impoundment area in accordance with Airport procedures for abandoned vehicles. (e)The owner or authorized representative of any vehicle removed from the temporary impoundment area as abandoned may recover possession of such vehicle upon proof of ownership and payment of appropriate charges accrued against such vehicle for parking, towing and storage on the Airport in addition to the charges provided in the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, unless state law provides otherwise. (f)Relocation of vehicles. Either law enforcement officers employed by the County's Police Department, designated employees of the County, or authorized persons under contract to the County shall have the right to relocate properly parked private vehicles, when such is necessary to protect such vehicle or when such vehicle is so parked as to interfere with construction or other like activities on the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 88-37, § 7, 5-3-88; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 105, 106, 3-7-95) 25-8.6 Abandoned vehicles and equipment removal. (a)No person shall abandon any vehicle or equipment on the Airport. Either law enforcement officers employed by the County's Police Department or designated Department personnel are authorized to remove or cause the removal, in accordance with applicable state or County regulations, of any abandoned vehicles or equipment to the area of the Airport designated for the impoundment of such by the Department. For the purposes of this section, any vehicle or equipment, except one properly parked in an Airport parking facility, in a parking facility under the control of an Airport tenant of the County, or other area authorized by the Department, which shall have been left unattended upon the Airport for a period of forty-eight (48) hours or more shall be presumed to have been abandoned and may be considered and treated as abandoned. (b)No person shall park or store a vehicle or equipment in an Airport parking facility, in a parking facility under the control of an Airport tenant of the County, or other area authorized for parking by the Department, which shall have been left unattended or inoperable upon the Airport for a period of sixty (60) days or more without a written permit from the Department or its authorized agent. Vehicles so left unattended shall be presumed to have been abandoned and may be considered and treated as such, in accordance with provisions of subsections 25-8.5 and 25-8.6(a) of this chapter; however, the Department may approve the removal of an abandoned vehicle to a location off the Airport and not require the interim storage of such vehicle in the Airport impoundment area. (c)Upon the removal of such abandoned vehicle or equipment to the Airport impoundment area the provisions of subsection 25-8.5(b), (c), (d) and (e) of this chapter shall be observed to the extent applicable. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 107, 3-7-95) 25-8.7 Certain vehicular traffic prohibited. (a)No person shall operate any truck, trailer, semitrailer, truck tractor, special mobile equipment, house trailer, dump truck, truck-mounted shovel, crane, transit mixer, or any other vehicle designated for the transportation of property to which machinery has been attached, on any Airport roadway for the purpose of utilizing such roadway as a short-cut thoroughfare between any points outside the boundaries of the Airport, unless otherwise directed by a Police Officer, or pursuant to a written permit issued by the Department. (b)No person shall operate any vehicle on the Airport contrary to posted load or height limits.(c)Separate crane clearance authorization is required for all vehicles with a height of fifteen (15) feet or higher operating at any Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 108, 3-7-95) 25-8.8 Pedestrians. (a)No pedestrian shall cross the upper or lower vehicular drives at the Terminal Building, Miami International Airport, except at marked crosswalks. (b)No pedestrian shall cross any Airport roadway having marked intersection crosswalks, except at such crosswalks.(c)No pedestrian shall cross or walk upon any other Airport roadway except in conformance with the applicable provisions of Section 30-221 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida, as it may be amended from time to time. (d)Every person operating a vehicle on the Airport roadway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian in a marked pedestrian crosswalk. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 109, 3-7-95) Annotation—AO of 9-1-81.Sec. 25-9. Control of vehicular traffic on the air operations area.25-9.1 Governing law. The control of all vehicular traffic on the AOA shall be governed by applicable laws of the state and County, and the rules and regulations prescribed herein as enforced by any designated Department representative or law enforcement officer. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 110, 3-7-95) 25-9.2 Authority to operate on the air operations area. (a)No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle on the AOA, unless such operation is required on the AOA and is directly related to an aviation activity on the Airport, the business of the Department, or the business of a tenant, an authorized subtenant or other authorized user of the Airport. (b)No person shall enter upon the AOA at Miami International Airport other than pursuant to subsection 25-2.20 herein, nor shall any person drive a motor vehicle on the AOA without a motor vehicle identification permit as prescribed by subsection 25-9.7 herein, a valid driver's license as prescribed by subsection 25-9.8 herein, and, unless accompanied by a Departmental escort, or else be in possession of a certificate of completion of the AOA driver training course administered or approved by the Department. (c)Insurance against personal injury and property damage shall be provided in the amounts required by the Department from time to time for individual Airports. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 111, 3-7-95) 25-9.3 Yielding to aircraft. All motor vehicles on the AOA shall yield the right-of-way to aircraft in motion, under all conditions. This requirement shall include vehicles within designated roadways on the AOA. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 112, 3-7-95) 25-9.4 Crossing runways and taxiways. (a)No person at an Airport with an operating control tower shall operate a motor vehicle beyond the hold bars of an active runway, or (i) closer than one hundred fifty (150) feet from the edge of an active runway, or (ii) closer to an active taxiway than as may be provided in the specific Operational Directives for the Airport, or as may subsequently be required by regulations, without first having received clearance to proceed from the control tower. (b)During periods when a control tower is shut down or at Airports without an operations control tower, no person shall operate a motor vehicle beyond the hold bars of an active runway, or closer to an active taxiway stated in the specific Operational Directives for the Airport, or as may subsequently be required by regulations, without first determining that no aircraft are approaching and transmitting his or her intentions on the appropriate common traffic advisory frequency (C.T.A.F.). Movement across said runway or taxiway shall then be made expeditiously. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 113, 3-7-95) 25-9.5 Operations near aircraft. No person, other than the operator of an aircraft servicing vehicle for that aircraft, shall operate a motor vehicle on the AOA at Miami International Airport so as to pass within twenty (20) feet of a parked aircraft, unless traveling on a marked interior service road, or contrary to published vehicle operating procedures, including but not limited to specific routes or zones marked on pavement or regulatory signs. In the case of an aircraft being loaded or unloaded at ground level, on the Terminal Apron no vehicle shall be operated between said aircraft and the Terminal concourses while passengers are enplaning or deplaning. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 114, 3-7-95) 25-9.6 Two-way radio requirements. The operator of a motor vehicle requiring clearance to operate on or across an active taxiway or runway at an Airport with an operating control towner shall maintain direct two-way radio contact with the control tower, or in the event a two-way radio is inoperable or unavailable, shall operate said vehicle only under the escort of an authorized motor vehicle equipped with a two-way radio in contact with the control tower. This requirement shall not apply, however, to operators of vehicles authorized by the Department to receive preestablished visual signals from the control tower, or to operators of vehicles following preestablished special procedures of the Department which have been approved by the Federal Aviation Administration. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 115, 3-7-95) 25-9.7 Motor vehicle identification permits. (a)No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the AOA at Miami International Airport without an official motor vehicle identification permit issued pursuant to an Operational Directive of the Department, as defined in subsections 25-9.7(b), (c), and (d), and without company identification conspicuously displayed thereon. (b)An AOA regular vehicle permit may be issued for each motor vehicle authorized by the Department to operate on the AOA at Miami International Airport on a regular, continuing basis and may be renewed annually or for such longer period as may be determined by the Department. Such permit shall be permanently affixed to the upper center of the windshield, or where there is no windshield, to the driver's side of the vehicle or to such other place on the vehicle as designated by the Department. The driver of a vehicle for which an AOA regular vehicle permit has been issued shall at all times comply with the terms of the permit as established by the Department, which terms shall include the requirement that an AOA driver's certificate be obtained from the Department as a condition of entry on the AOA by such driver, in accordance with Section 25-9.2(b) of this chapter. (c)An AOA temporary vehicle permit may be issued for temporary, or limited access for each motor vehicle used on the AOA at Miami International Airport for prime contractors and others engaged in construction or other activities for or approved by the Department. This permit shall be conspicuously displayed on the motor vehicle to which it is issued. Unless operating within a designated construction area, any motor vehicle bearing such permit shall, at all times while on the AOA, be under escort by an authorized escort vehicle, unless otherwise authorized by the Department. (d)An AOA temporary vehicle permit may be issued for a limited area and time for motor vehicles which require occasional or "one-time" access to a specific location on the AOA at Miami International Airport to make authorized pick-ups or deliveries. This permit shall be issued at the discretion of the Department and shall be obtained only at Department-controlled AOA gates to AOA upon clearance by an Airport tenant or by other authorized personnel, and is valid only for the length of time indicated thereon. It shall be returned to an access gate at or prior to the expiration of the allotted time. This permit shall be conspicuously displayed on the motor vehicle to which it is issued. Any motor vehicle bearing such permit shall, at all times while on the AOA, be under escort, unless otherwise authorized by the Director. (e)All motor vehicle identification permits shall remain the property of the Department, and are not transferable. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 116, 3-7-95) 25-9.8 Driver's license. No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the AOA, unless such individual carries on his person at all times a currently valid operator's license for the type vehicle being operated, issued in accordance with federal law or statutes of the State of Florida; provided however, that the Department may require by Operational Directive that operators of specific types and classes of equipment operated on the AOA must obtain operator's licenses for the type of vehicle involved, even though operator's licenses may not then be required for such type of vehicle by state or federal laws. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 117, 3-7-95) 25-9.9 Designated vehicular routes. No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the air operations area, except operators of emergency vehicles proceeding in response to an alarm or Department vehicles in the performance of individual duties, unless such person operates on established vehicular routes only. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-9.10 Speed limits and traffic control. (a)No person shall operate any motor vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle proceeding in response to an alarm, on the air operations area at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour, except as otherwise posted. (b)No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the air operations area (including the service drives within the Terminal Building at Miami International Airport) in violation of any traffic-control device. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-9.11 Reckless driving. No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the air operations area in a reckless manner, so as to indicate a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-9.12 Careless driving. No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the air operations area in a careless manner, which is other than in a careful and prudent manner, having regard for the width, grade, curves, corners, traffic and use of roadways, weather conditions and all other attendant circumstances, so as not to endanger the life, limb or property of any person. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-9.13 Vehicle and equipment condition and safety requirements. No person shall operate a motor vehicle or equipment on the AOA unless such vehicle or equipment is in good operating condition and repair for a unit of its type and is equipped with at least the following safety equipment in fully operable condition: (a)Motor vehicle lights:(1)All motor vehicles operated on the AOA, except motor vehicles designed for only one (1) headlight and except tow tugs and other specialized ramp equipment designed with only taillights, shall be equipped with two (2) headlights and one or more red taillights and brake lights. (2)All headlights and taillights shall be kept lighted between the hours of sunset and sunrise and at all times when passing through unlighted or poorly lighted areas. (3)Any motor vehicle, other than emergency vehicles, operating on runways or taxiways of the AOA shall display an amber overhead flashing or rotating light at all times while so operating; provided, however that between the hours of sunrise and sunset a motor vehicle not so equipped may so operate if such vehicle displays a checkered flag approved by the Department. The use of red or blue flashing or rotating lights shall be limited to emergency vehicles only. (4)All motor vehicle lights shall be of sufficient brilliance to assure their capability of being seen, but not so as to temporarily blind others. (5)All baggage and cargo carts shall be equipped with reflectors or fluorescent tape material, two (2) each on the front, the rear and both sides of the cart. The reflectors shall be standard truck types. If fluorescent tape is used, each piece shall have a reflective surface of not less than fourteen (14) square inches. Reflectors or tape on the front and front sides shall be amber and on the rear and rear sides shall be red. (b)Motor vehicle brakes:(1)All motor vehicles operating on the AOA shall be equipped with a properly functioning braking system, suitable for the specific type of equipment being operated. (2)The operator of a motor vehicle on the AOA shall test the brakes of such vehicle upon approaching an aircraft within such distance as necessary to avoid a collision with such aircraft in the event of brake failure. (c)Motor vehicle windows and mirrors:(1)Every motor vehicle operating on the AOA shall be equipped with at least one mirror, so adjusted that the operator of such vehicle shall have a clear view of the road behind for a distance of at least two hundred (200) feet. Exceptions to this requirement are to be requested through the Director, and if justified, authorization will be granted on an individual basis. (2)The windshields and other windows of a motor vehicle operating on the AOA shall be free of cracks, blisters, discoloration or any other defect causing distortion or obstruction of the vision of the operator thereof. (3)The use or placing of posters, stickers, signs or other objects on the windshield or other windows of a motor vehicle operating on the AOA, other than those required by the Department or by law, is prohibited. (4)The vision of the operator of a motor vehicle on the AOA shall not be obstructed by an extended superstructure or load. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 118—120, 3-7-95) 25-9.14 Emergency vehicles. Upon the approach of a Police, ambulance, Fire Department, or other emergency vehicle giving an audible or visual signal, each person operating another motor vehicle on the AOA shall immediately yield the right-of-way to such vehicle, until the emergency vehicle has stopped or passed, unless otherwise directed by an Airport law enforcement officer. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 121, 3-7-95) 25-9.15 Occupants of motor vehicles. No person shall, while on the Airport, ride on the running board of a moving motor vehicle, stand up in the body of a moving motor vehicle, ride on the outside of the body of a moving motor vehicle, or ride on such a vehicle with his arms or legs protruding from the body of the vehicle, unless required to do so in the performance of his duties. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-9.16 Tugs and trailers. (a)No person shall operate a tug, trailer, or other motor vehicle, on the AOA, towing a train of baggage or cargo carts in excess of five (5) carts or sixty (60) feet long, unless specifically authorized in writing by the Department. (b)No person shall operate a baggage cart, container dolly, semi-trailer or any other type of trailer on the AOA unless it is equipped with proper brakes so that when disengaged from a towing vehicle, propeller slipstreams, jet blasts, or wind will not cause it to come free-rolling. (c)No person shall tow any equipment unless such equipment has engaged positive locking couplings.(d)No person shall store any tugs, cargo and baggage carts on the AOA, when not in use, except in storage areas designated by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 122, 3-7-95) 25-9.17 Traffic control. Any person operating a motor vehicle on the AOA shall obey all posted regulatory signs, special signs, pavement markings and traffic signals, and all instructions by the control tower, a designated Department employee, or a law enforcement officer. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 123, 3-7-95) 25-9.18 Parking. (a)No person shall park any motor vehicle or motorized or other equipment on the AOA in areas other than those designated or authorized by the Department, nor in any manner contrary to any posted regulatory signs, traffic-control devices or pavement markings. (b)No person shall park a motor vehicle or motorized or other equipment on the AOA as to interfere with the use of a facility by others or prevent the passage or movement of aircraft, emergency vehicles or other motor vehicles. (c)No person shall park a motor vehicle or motorized or other equipment on the AOA in such a manner as to interfere with or prevent an aircraft fueling vehicle from being readily driven away from such aircraft in the event of an emergency. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 124, 3-7-95) 25-9.19 Motor vehicle accidents. (a)Any person operating a motor vehicle on the AOA which is involved in an accident resulting in injury to any person or damage to any property, shall (1)Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible,(2)Notify the Metro-Dade Police Department and an authorized representative of the Department, and(3)Then return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection 25-9.19(b). The vehicle shall be stopped and parked during these events so as to minimize any obstructions to aircraft and other vehicles. (b)Any person operating a motor vehicle on the AOA which is involved in an accident, as defined in subsection 25-9.19(a) and the owner of such vehicle, if other than the operator thereof, shall make a full report of such accident to the Metro Dade Police Department, and to an authorized representative of the Department as soon after the accident as possible, including the names and addresses of the individuals involved, the registration and license number of the vehicle or vehicles involved, and such other information relevant to the accident on request of any law enforcement officer investigating the same; and the operator of any such motor vehicle involved in such accident shall, upon request, exhibit such licenses, registration or other documents relevant to such accident or the persons or property involved to any law enforcement officer investigating the same. (c)In the event a law enforcement officer investigating an accident pursuant to subsection 25-9.19(b) has reason to believe that a mechanical failure in a vehicle or equipment involved in accident was or may have contributed to the cause of such accident, said law enforcement officer may impound such vehicle or equipment until such time that a mechanical failure can be ruled out as causing or contributing to the cause of the accident. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 125, 126, 3-7-95) 25-9.20 Service and repair of motor vehicles. (a)No person shall service, clean, repair, maintain, or overhaul any motor vehicle or motorized or other equipment on the AOA except for immediate minimum repairs required to remove said vehicle from AOA because of a breakdown, or as otherwise approved or authorized by lease or Operational Directive of the Department. (b)No person shall fuel a motor vehicle or motorized equipment on the AOA in any areas other than those established by the Department, or contrary to any procedures which are established by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 127, 3-7-95) 25-9.21 Tampering with motor vehicles. No person shall move, interfere with, or tamper with any motor vehicle, or put into operation the engine of any motor vehicle, or take or use any motor vehicle part, instrument or tool, without the authorization of the owner. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-9.22 Contractor's access and operations on the air operations area. (a)Access to and egress from the site of construction located on the AOA by motor vehicles, cranes and other equipment belonging to or under the supervision of an Airport contractor shall be gained only via routes, through gates, and at such times as may be established or approved by the Department. Request for access to such sites shall be made to the Department a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours in advance. (b)Construction equipment shall be operated and stored within the AOA, in accordance with procedures established or approved by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 128, 3-7-95) Sec. 25-10. Aircraft and Aircraft Operations [2]. 25-10.1 Negligent operations prohibited. No person shall operate aircraft at the Airport: (a)In a careless or negligent manner,(b)In disregard of the rights and safety of others,(c)Without due caution and circumspection, or(d)At a speed or in a manner which endangers, or is likely to endanger, persons or property, or if such aircraft is so constructed, equipped or loaded, so as to endanger, or be likely to endanger, persons or property. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 129, 3-7-95) 25-10.2 Compliance with orders. All aeronautical activities at the Airport shall be conducted in conformity with the current applicable provisions of the Federal Aviation Regulations and Orders, these rules and regulations, Operational Directives issued by the Department and directions of the air traffic control tower. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-10.3 Denial of departure. (a)The Director may prohibit an aircraft from taking-off from the Airport at any time, under any known circumstances which in the judgment of the Director may result in danger to persons or property on or off the Airport, or for any other justifiable reason. Such justifiable reason may include, but is not limited to, the failure to obtain such departure authorization from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as may be required. (b)No person shall fuel an aircraft when a specific order has been issued by the Department prohibiting the fueling of such aircraft.(c)The Department may, at any time, prohibit an aircraft from taking off from an Airport for failure of the aircraft owner or operator to report or pay all required aviation fees, or if the Department has placed a lien on the aircraft in accordance with state statutes, said lien has not been satisfied or satisfactorily resolved. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 130, 3-7-95) 25-10.4 Payment of fees. Unless otherwise approved by the Department, no aircraft shall take-off from an Airport unless payment or arrangements for payment of fees and charges, if any, for use of Airport facilities, parking or other services rendered by the Department shall have been made. All aircraft operators, except operators of scheduled air carriers operating under special lease contracts or those whose operations are paid for in advance or who have established a credit account with the Department, upon landing and prior to take-off shall register such landing or take-off with the Department in accordance with Operational Directives issued by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 131, 3-7-95) 25-10.5 Denial of use of Airport. The Director may deny the use of the Airport to any aircraft owner, operator or pilot who violates these rules and regulations and Operational Directives issued by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-10.6 Aircraft accidents. (a)Any person operating an aircraft involved in an accident on the Airport resulting in injury to any person or damage to any property, shall immediately stop such aircraft at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible so as to minimize the obstruction of other aircraft operations or motor vehicle traffic. The person operating said aircraft shall then comply with Federal Aviation Administration Notification Procedures and notify the Department. Such person shall then return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled all reporting requirements, including those specified in subsection 25-10.6(b). (b)Any person operating an aircraft involved in an accident on the Airport, of the type specified in subsection 25-10.6(a) and the owner of such aircraft, if other than the operator thereof, shall make a full report of such accident to the Metro-Dade Police Department, and to an authorized representative of the Department as soon after the accident as possible, including the names and addresses of the individuals involved, the description of the property and all aircraft involved, the registration and license number of all aircraft involved, and such other information relevant to the accident on request of any law enforcement officer investigating the same; and the operator of any such aircraft involved in such accident shall, upon request, exhibit such licenses, registrations or other documents relevant to such accident or the persons or property involved to any law enforcement officer investigating the same. (c)The owner or operator of an aircraft involved in an accident on the Airport shall not move such aircraft from the scene of the accident until authorized to do so by the appropriate federal agencies and the Director. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 132, 3-7-95) 25-10.7 Removal of disabled aircraft. (a)Aircraft owners, operators and tenants shall be responsible for the prompt disposal of disabled aircraft and parts thereof, unless required or directed to delay such action by the Director or an authorized federal agency. (b)When a disabled aircraft is blocking or delaying the use of any portion of the AOA, the owner or operator of the aircraft shall make immediate arrangements to have such aircraft moved as soon as an authorized representative of the Department and appropriate governmental agencies have authorized such movement. In the event that removal of the aircraft is not initiated as soon as possible, or is not progressing at a rate acceptable to the Department, the Director shall have the right to initiate action to remove the aircraft at the expense and risk of the owner. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 133, 3-7-95) 25-10.8 Tampering with aircraft. No person shall interfere or tamper with any aircraft, or put in motion such aircraft, or use or remove any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments or tools without appropriate positive evidence of the owner's approval thereof. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 134, 3-7-95) 25-10.9 Enplaning and deplaning. (a)No person shall enplane or deplane passengers or cargo at Miami International Airport except in specific areas, assigned by the Department, designated by posted painted ramp markings, established by Operational Directives, or pursuant to permits issued by the Department or Airport lease agreements with the County. Where a passenger aircraft is being loaded or unloaded at ground level, all passengers shall be channeled by the shortest and safest route across the aircraft apron area, under the direction and supervision of the aircraft operator or his authorized representatives. All such aircraft operators shall load and unload an aircraft through designated restricted areas, in accordance with security and operational procedures established by the Department and Federal Aviation Regulations. (b)No person operating an aircraft shall enplane or deplane passengers or cargo at Miami International Airport other than at aircraft gates or positions or areas established pursuant to subsection 25-10.9(a). All such operators, when deplaning passengers through any part of such an established or authorized area, that has been restricted by the Department for enplaning passengers that have been previously screened in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulations, must insure that the arriving passengers have previously passed through such established Federal Aviation Administration security screening procedures before entering such designated restricted area, or must make arrangements for physical escort through such restricted area, in accordance with requirements of federal law and Federal Aviation Regulations. (c)No person operating a general aviation or military aircraft shall enplane or deplane passengers or cargo on the terminal apron at Miami International Airport, without having made prior arrangements thereof with the Department or unless such operation is in accordance with Operational Directives of the Department. (d)No person operating an aircraft shall enplane or deplane passengers at the terminal apron without having made prior arrangements for all required aircraft and passenger services. (e)No persons, including scheduled or nonscheduled air carriers, certified helicopter operators, supplemental air carriers, air carrier charterers, or other aircraft operators, shall utilize an Airport for any commercial activities except as are specifically authorized by Operational Directives, permits issued by the Department, lease or other agreement with the County or in accordance with the Airport's Federal Aviation Administration certification. (f)All fees charged others by the lessee of any exclusively leased aircraft parking position at the Airport, for the use of such parking position shall be subject to approval annually by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 135, 136, 3-7-95) 25-10.10 Cleaning, maintenance and repair of aircraft. (a)No person shall clean, paint, wash, polish or otherwise maintain an aircraft, other than in areas approved by the Department for such purpose. (b)No person, unless authorized by FAA regulations, shall maintain or repair or permit the maintenance or repair of an aircraft at any Airport other than: (1)At Federal Aviation Administration approved repair station;(2)At Federal Aviation Regulations, Part 121 airline maintenance station; or(3)At an area authorized by the Department for such maintenance or repair by an FAA approved and licensed mechanic holding a valid Department approved identification badge and required vehicle entry permit, as appropriate, issued by the Department. (c)No person, unless an employee of or under contract to an Airport lessee authorized by its lease agreement with the County to perform aircraft maintenance and repair, or an aircraft owner to the extent that self-maintenance is allowed under Federal Aviation Regulations and is otherwise authorized and permitted under the provisions of Chapters 24 and 25 of this Code, shall perform any aircraft maintenance and repair work at any Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 137, 138, 3-7-95) 25-10.11 Radio communications. No person shall operate an aircraft at Miami International Airport, unless such aircraft is equipped with functioning two-way radio, tuneable to and operating on the frequencies set out in notices to airmen as being assigned to the Miami International Airport Control Tower and such other communications equipment as may be required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Aircraft which land, in emergencies, without functioning required communications equipment shall be required to have such equipment operational before clearing for take-off, unless authorized by FAA Air Traffic Control. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-10.12 Aircraft equipment. Except as may be otherwise authorized by the Department pursuant to Section 25-10.17 of the Code, no person shall operate an aircraft on the Airport, other than a helicopter, unless it is equipped with main landing gear, a tail or nose wheel, and wheel brakes, and unless the aircraft has been issued all certificates then required by the FAA to operate at the Airport. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 139, 3-7-95) 25-10.13 Landing and taking-off. (a)No person shall land at or take-off in an aircraft, other than a helicopter, from an Airport having a control tower except on the runway and in the direction assigned by the control tower. Aircraft not requiring a runway, such as a helicopter, shall operate in strict accordance with directions of the FAA Control Tower, where such tower facilities are available and in use. (b)No person shall land at or take-off from the Airport in a helicopter except at designated helicopter landing and take-off areas, in strict compliance with air traffic control tower procedures or preestablished operational procedures where no tower facilities are available. (c)Persons landing at or taking-off in an aircraft from an Airport having a control tower shall conform to the air traffic instructions given by the control tower. (d)No person shall turn an aircraft in order to reverse direction on the runway, unless given specific instructions or authorization to do so by the control tower. (e)No person shall take-off or land in an aircraft on or from an unserviceable runway, or on or from any ramp area or taxiway, without prior authorization of the Department and Federal Aviation Administration. (f)Persons landing an aircraft at the Airport shall make the landing runway available to other aircraft by leaving the runway as promptly as possible. (g)No person shall take-off or land an "engine-out" ferry flight (e.g., three-engine operation of four-engine aircraft) at Miami International Airport, except under the following conditions: (1)When conducted by Federal Aviation Regulations Part 121 operator, in strict compliance with its FAA approved maintenance program; or (2)When authorized by a written FAA permit, and, under either condition,(3)In accordance with established Airport Operational Directives.(h)Any person operating or controlling an aircraft landing at or taking-off from the Airport shall ensure the aircraft meets applicable federal noise emission standards and maintains engine noise within applicable aircraft engine noise limits as promulgated by the federal government, the State of Florida or Dade County. Aircraft pilots shall utilize thrust and flap management techniques consistent with industry noise abatement guidelines and FAA air traffic control instructions and are encouraged to follow noise abatement programs described in Operational Directives and Bulletins issued by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 140, 3-7-95) 25-10.14 Taxiing. (a)No person shall taxi an aircraft until he has ascertained that there is no danger of collision with any person or object in the immediate area by visual inspection of the area, and when available, through information furnished by attendants. (b)No person shall taxi an aircraft except at a safe and reasonable speed.(c)No person shall taxi an aircraft onto or across any active runway or taxiway until cleared to do so by the control tower, or where such clearance authorization is not managed by the control tower, until ascertaining that said taxiway or runway is clear of other traffic. (d)No person shall taxi an aircraft near buildings, parked aircraft, or ground equipment, unless an attendant is present on the ground to assist the operator thereof. (e)No person shall taxi an aircraft other than in accordance with the taxiing patterns and procedures prescribed for the particular runway to be used or, where applicable, in accordance with the instructions of the control tower. (f)No person shall push, tow, or back an aircraft away from a designated parking position, in the terminal area or on the apron without assuring that conditions are safe to do so, and in accordance with Operational Directives. (g)No person shall engage in a power-back an aircraft on any Terminal apron or Terminal aircraft parking position, except at Department approved power-back parking positions, without advance written permission from the Department for such power-back operations and clearance from the FAA control tower for each power-back movement. Except as specifically authorized by the Department, for each power-back movement, the operator of the aircraft shall provide or arrange for the provision of (1) guide persons or wing walkers for each wing, so positioned that vehicles on any adjoining vehicular route will be instructed to stop before the power-back movement commences, and (2) an additional guide person must also be so provided in proper position to provide signals to the aircraft operator to assure safe power-back conditions throughout the movement. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, §§ 141, 142, 3-7-95) 25-10.15 Airport marking and lighting. No person shall take-off from, land, park or maneuver an aircraft at the Airport, without complying with all Airport lighting and pavement marking signals and designations, unless the Department or the Federal Aviation Administration has waived such compliance. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 143, 3-7-95) 25-10.16 Motorless aircraft. No person shall land at or take-off from Miami International Airport in a motorless aircraft. No person shall land or take-off from any other Airport in a motorless aircraft except as provided by Operational Directive and, where applicable, clearance from the Airport control tower. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 144, 3-7-95) 25-10.17 Airport operational restrictions. Unless contrary to Federal Aviation Regulations, the Department shall have the authority to designate or restrict the use of Airports or runways at an Airport with respect to but not limited to, the following types of operations: (a)Student pilot training.(b)Training flights.(c)Experimental flights.(d)Equipment demonstration.(e)Air shows.(f)Maintenance flight checks.(g)Ultralight aircraft flights.(h)Parachuting activities.(i)Towing, pick up or release of any banner.(j)Hot air balloons. Such designations or restrictions shall be established through the issuance by the Department of appropriate Operational Directives. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 145, 3-7-95) 25-10.18 Aircraft parking. (a)No person shall park an aircraft at a parking position on the terminal apron, other than pursuant to and for purposes authorized by Operational Directives issued by the Department. (b)No person shall park an aircraft at a gate position at the Miami International Airport Terminal without having received prior assignment to such gate position from the Department. However, such assignment is not required if said aircraft to be parked is being directly operated by an Airport user which has been given authorization by the Department to assign its aircraft to the gate position involved. (c)When an aircraft parking position on the Terminal apron is not needed for other aircraft, an aircraft operator may, following assignment of that gate, park at such gate position according to the time and rate schedule established by the Board, or by the Department, if duly authorized by the Board. (d)When an aircraft parking position on the Terminal apron is needed for other aircraft, an aircraft operator to whom such gate position is assigned shall park at such gate position no longer than the maximum allowable turn-around time according to aircraft type as established by the Department or as otherwise permitted by lease. Failure of the aircraft operator to remove the aircraft from the gate position within the allotted maximum time shall subject the aircraft operator, in addition to any other penalties prescribed by these rules and regulations, to a charge in accordance with the time and rate schedule established by the Board, or by the Department if duly authorized by the Board, and, if the Department deems it necessary for the efficient operation of the Airport, removal of the aircraft from the gate position at the owner's or operator's risk and expense. (e)No person shall park an aircraft at the Terminal, or on an apron area, whether leased or not, including designated taxilanes, other than at such positions and in such configurations as may be established by the Department. (f)No person shall use any area of an Airport, including designated taxiways and taxilanes, other than Department designated public aircraft parking and storage areas, for parking and storage of aircraft, except as otherwise specifically authorized by lease, permit or Operational Directive. Notwithstanding the provisions of any lease or permit to the contrary, if any person uses unauthorized areas, including designated taxiways and taxilanes, without the prior, specific approval of the Department, and the payment of applicable rentals or aircraft parking charges, for aircraft parking or storage, the aircraft so parked or stored may be removed by the Department at the risk and expense of the owner or operator thereof. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 146, 3-7-95) 25-10.19 Radio ground control. The operator of an aircraft taxiing or being towed at an Airport having a control tower shall monitor the ground control frequency being used by the control tower and shall remain in direct communication with the control tower at all times when so operating anywhere on the AOA. In addition, all persons taxing or towing an aircraft at Miami International Airport, other than pilots licensed to operate the particular aircraft being taxied, must be certified as having successfully completed the "movement area driver's training program" given by the Department. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 147, 3-7-95) 25-10.20 Propeller slipstream and jet blast. No person shall position, start or taxi an aircraft in such a manner that propeller slipstream or jet blast could cause injury to persons or damage to property on the Airport or adjacent to the Airport, or contrary to Operational Directives. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 148, 3-7-95) 25-10.21 Starting and running aircraft engines. (a)No person shall start engines or operate an aircraft unless he is a qualified licensed pilot or mechanic.(b)Blocks or chocks shall be placed in front of the wheels before starting the aircraft engine or engines, unless the aircraft is provided with adequate parking brakes and the same are in applied position. (c)(1) An "aircraft engine run-up" is defined as the operation of the engines on an aircraft for any purpose other than for proceeding expeditiously to and from an Airport runway system for takeoff, or for landing or taxiing to and from an approved run-up location. Aircraft engine run-ups include, but are not limited to, engine trim checks, oil pressure checks, propeller checks, various diagnostic tests and aircraft engine idle thrust runs. This definition of aircraft engine run-ups specifically excludes reciprocating engine run-ups performed as part of pre-takeoff procedures, such as magneto checks, conducted on a runway run-up pad, and all engine operations in approved test cells. The term "idle thrust" means the minimum power setting on an engine required to maintain constant, stable engine power output. An "aircraft engine idle thrust run" is defined as the idle thrust operation of an aircraft engine for any purpose other than proceeding expeditiously to and from an Airport runway system for takeoff or for taxiing to an approved run-up location. (2)Miami International Airport nighttime aircraft engine run-ups, as defined in (1) above, are prohibited commencing at 11:00 p.m. every night through 7:00 a.m. on Mondays through Fridays and through 10:00 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays, unless a specific exemption has been granted by the Department. Exemptions will be granted subject to the following: (i)All requests for exemption must be made by letter, telephone or radio, at the office designated by the Department, at least one hour prior to the time the run-up is requested. The person requesting the exemption must provide the following information: Name, title and telephone number of requesting individual Name of airline and/or owner or other party having custody and control of aircraft Aircraft registration Aircraft type The mechanical and/or operational reason why the run-up is required The scheduled departure time and flight number of the aircraft The expected duration of the run-up (ii)Exemptions will only be granted for aircraft scheduled to depart the Airport during the same prohibition period in which the requested run-up is to occur or within one hour after expiration of such prohibition period and the requesting party provides information, acceptable to the Department, as to why the run-up can not be performed prior to or after the prohibition period for which the exemption is sought. (iii)All aircraft engine run-ups during the prohibition period, under exemptions granted by the Department, shall be conducted only at the airport's midfield blast fence, unless the aircraft owner or other party in custody and control of the aircraft can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Department that use of another location will result in less noise and/or air pollution. In the event the midfield blast fence is out of service, the Department shall designate an alternative acceptable location. (iv)All aircraft engine run-ups during the prohibition period, under exemptions granted by the Department, shall be limited to a maximum period of fifteen (15) minutes, of which the run-up at maximum engine power shall be limited to no more than one minute. (v)All aircraft engine run-ups during hours not included in the prohibition period shall be conducted only at the midfield blast fence or at other locations which have been authorized for such use by the Department. (vi)All aircraft engine idle thrust runs during the prohibition period, under exemptions granted by the Department, shall be conducted only at aircraft parking positions in the terminal apron area, or at locations designated by aircraft power-on markers, or at other locations approved by the Department. (vii)All aircraft thrust runs during the prohibition period, under exemptions granted by the Department, shall be conducted with only a single engine operating, unless multi-engine operation is required for aircraft maintenance purposes and is approved in advance by the Department. (3)No person shall perform aircraft engine run-ups, at any County general aviation Airport, other than in places on such general aviation Airport and at such times as may be established from time to time in Operational Directives issued by the Department. (4)The restrictions hereunder shall not apply to any normal pre-takeoff aircraft engine run-ups performed on a run-way run-up pad if the aircraft is departing the Airport. (5)Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 25-1.7, for the first violation of this Section 25-10.21(c) the operator shall be given a written warning and the person having custody and control of the aircraft at the time of the violation shall be punished by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). For each subsequent violation of this Section 25-10.21(c) by an operator, the provisions of Section 15-1.7 shall apply. In the event that a person having custody and control of an aircraft commits a second violation of this Section 25-10.21(c) within a three (3) month period, said person shall be punished by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). In the event that such a person commits a third violation of this Section 25-10.21(c), within a twelve-month period, in addition to a punishment by fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), such violation shall also constitute a material breach of the lease agreement or other written agreement by which the person is permitted to use the Airport, and shall, therefore, entitle the County to terminate such agreement. Upon conviction of the person for such third violation, the Director shall direct, to the extent such action is permitted by the agreements, that such agreements be terminated and shall effect the removal or eviction of the person from the Airport facilities. (d)Noise emanating from aircraft engines during ground operations shall be maintained within the then applicable aircraft engine noise limits as promulgated by the Federal government, the State of Florida, or Dade County, whichever be the most restrictive. (e)Aircraft shall be parked so that fumes, prop wash and jet blast are not directly blown into non-enclosed passenger holding or loading and baggage make-up areas at the Terminal. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 91-134, § 1, 11-5-91; Ord. No. 95-41, § 149, 3-7-95) 25-10.22 Aircraft lights. No person shall park an aircraft at a terminal parking position, or such other areas that may be established by the Department at the Airport, during periods of low visibility or between the hours of sunset and sunrise, unless the wingtip lights or other suitable warning lights for such aircraft are kept lighted while the aircraft is so parked, or apron lighting is such that all portions of the aircraft are clearly visible. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75) 25-10.23 Interference with aircraft operations. (a)No person shall, while on the Airport, disturb, interrupt or otherwise interfere with:(1)The enplanement or deplanement of aircraft passengers;(2)The departure or arrival of any aircraft, other than as permitted in Section 25-10.3; or(3)Any member of a flight crew aboard an aircraft in the performance of his duties.(b)The refusal of any person to comply with the request of any member of the flight crew to observe and obey regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration relating to the safety of passengers or aircraft shall constitute disturbance, interruption or interference with a member of a flight crew in the performance of his duties. (c)No person shall, while aboard an aircraft on the Airport as a passenger, refuse to leave such aircraft upon the request of an agent or representative of the air carrier whose aircraft the person is aboard, when that person has committed an act which is a breach of his contract of carriage under the terms and conditions set out in the air carrier's tariffs. Such acts shall include, but shall not be limited to, violations of the Federal Aviation Regulations concerning fastenings of seat belts, observance of no smoking signs, placement of luggage, consumption of alcoholic beverages, intoxication, and obstruction of aisles and exits. (d)No person shall, while aboard an aircraft on the Airport as a passenger, refuse to leave such aircraft upon the request of an agent or representative of the owner or operator thereof, when such person has committed an act aboard the aircraft which is an assault, a breach of the peace, an act of intimidation, or a threat against any other person. (e)No person shall, while aboard an aircraft on the Airport, assault, intimidate or threaten any other person, or commit any act which is a breach of the peace. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 150, 3-7-95) 25-10.24 Non-Operating Aircraft. (a)Because the Board has found and determined that Non-Operating aircraft and component parts pose a danger to the life and safety of users of the Airport and their property, as a result of the possibility of the aircraft and components (1) being blown about in storms, (2) becoming fire hazards, (3) being subjected to vandalism, and (4) interfering with orderly and rapid emergency response efforts of firefighters, police, and ambulance services, no person shall park or store any Non-Operating aircraft on Airport property, including leased premises, for a period in excess of sixty (60) days, without written authorization from the Department. (b)No person shall store or retain aircraft parts or components being held as inventory anywhere on the Airport, other than in an enclosed, authorized facility, or in a manner approved by the Department, in writing. (c)Whenever any aircraft is parked, stored, or left in Non-Operating condition on the Airport in violation of the provisions of subsections 25-10.24(a), the Department shall follow the procedures required by law to notify the owner or operator thereof and require removal of said aircraft within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice, or if the owner or operator be unknown or cannot be found, the Department shall conspicuously post and affix a notice to the said aircraft, requiring removal of said aircraft within fifteen (15) days from date of posting. Upon the failure of the owner or operator of said aircraft to remove said aircraft within the period provided and unless the Department is required to follow Section 25-10.24(d), the Department shall cause the removal of such aircraft from the Airport. All costs incurred by the Department in the removal of any Non-Operating aircraft as set forth herein shall be recoverable against the owner or operator thereof. (d)Where any federal or Florida law imposes on the County a specific requirement of notice for the removal of Non-Operating aircraft, such law shall prevail and shall be followed by the Department. (e)To the extent required by state or federal law, the Department shall submit a proposed removal of aircraft under this section to a pre-taking hearing before a court of competent jurisdiction. (f)If any registered owner fails or refuses to respond to notices sent under this section or under federal or Florida law, the Department shall be entitled thereafter to proceed as if the aircraft had no identifiable owner and may effect the removal of the aircraft without a pre-taking hearing. (g)The Department may, but is not obligated to, resort to the administrative hearing provisions of Chapter 8CC of the Code to effect the removal of such aircraft. If required by federal or state law, the Department shall obtain from a court of competent jurisdiction an order of taking of such non-flyable or derelict aircraft. (Ord. No. 75-113, § 2, 12-2-75; Ord. No. 95-41, § 151, 3-7-95) 25-10.25 Prohibition on removal of liened aircraft. No person shall move or remove any aircraft from any Airport, or parts from such aircraft when an official notice of lien has been posted upon such aircraft by the Department. (Ord. No. 95-41, § 152, 3-7-95) 25-10.26 Waiver by Aviation Director for Governmental Operations. Notwithstanding any provision, requirement or prohibition stated in Chapter 25, the Aviation Director or his designee shall have the authority to waive any such provision, requirement or prohibition therein in order for any military branch operating on any County owned or operated airport to operate thereon in accordance with governmental requirements applicable to such operations. (Ord. No. 95-191, § 1, 10-17-95)

,Chapter 25A PUBLIC HEALTH TRUST [1]

Sec. 25A-1. Creation of Trust.Sec. 25A-2. Designated facilities and transfer of property in trust.Sec. 25A-3. Governing body.Sec. 25A-4. Powers and duties of the Trust.Sec. 25A-5. Financial support for the Public Health Trust.Sec. 25A-6. Supporting services.Sec. 25A-7. General provisions of the Trust.Sec. 25A-8. [Hospital exception.]Sec. 25A-9. Financial Sustainability.Sec. 25A-1. Creation of Trust. There is hereby created and established by authority of Chapter 73-102, Laws of Florida 1973, as an agency and instrumentality of Miami-Dade County, a revocable statutory trust the terms of which may be modified by Miami-Dade County, which Trust shall be named and known as the "Public Health Trust of Miami-Dade County, Florida" (hereinafter also referred to as the "Trust"). The Trust shall be a public body corporate and politic which, through its governing body, may exercise all those powers either specifically granted herein or necessary in the exercise of those powers herein enumerated. (Ord. No. 73-69, § 1, 7-30-73; Ord. No. 91-63, § 1, 6-18-91) Sec. 25A-2. Designated facilities and transfer of property in trust.(a) Designated facilities. The Trust, acting through its governing body as hereinafter defined, shall be responsible for the operation, maintenance and governance of the following facilities which are hereby declared to be "designated facilities" as that term is defined and used in Chapter 73-102, Laws of Florida 1973: Jackson Memorial Hospital and all related facilities and real and personal property used in connection therewith either presently existing or which may come into existence in which Miami-Dade County has a legal interest and which are located within the area bounded by NW 15 Avenue on the west, NW 20 Street on the north, NW 7 Avenue on the east, and NW 14 Street on the south; and all facilities and real and personal property which the Trust may acquire pursuant to the terms of this chapter. By resolution, the Board of County Commissioners may designate additional facilities or declassify and remove from the jurisdiction of the Trust facilities which have previously been designated. (b) Transfer of property in trust. Pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the Trust shall have possession and operating control of, but not title to, all real property within the meaning of "designated facilities," as that term is defined by this chapter. Title to all items of personal property within the meaning of "designated facilities," as that term is defined by this chapter, shall be transferred to the Trust to be held in trust pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, provided however, that the Trust shall be empowered to sell or otherwise lawfully dispose of such personal property. (Ord. No. 73-69, § 2, 7-30-73; Ord. No. 91-63, § 1, 6-18-91) Sec. 25A-3. Governing body.(a) Composition. The governing body of the Trust shall be a Board of Trustees composed of seven (7) voting members none of whom shall be employees of the Trust. Provided further that, if required by applicable law, regulation, or accreditation body, the governing body shall include at least one (1) member who is a physician authorized to practice medicine in the State of Florida. The voting membership shall be selected in accordance with Section 25A-3(d). (b) Qualifications. Each member of the Board of Trustees shall be a United States citizen and a permanent resident and duly qualified elector of Miami-Dade County, unless the Board of County Commissioners waives the residency requirement by a two-thirds vote of its membership, and shall be of an outstanding reputation of integrity, responsibility, and commitment to serving the community. Before entering upon the duties of office, each appointee to voting membership on the Board of Trustees shall give bond in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) to the Clerk of the Commission for the faithful performance of the duties of office and shall take the prescribed oath of office. Trustees shall serve without compensation but shall be entitled to reimbursement for necessary expenses, including the expense of performance bonds, incurred in the discharge of their duties. (c) Modified applicability of Conflict of Interest and Code of Ethics Ordinance. The Miami-Dade County Conflict of Interest and Code of Ethics Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as the "Conflict of Interest Ordinance"), Section 2-11.1. of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, shall be applicable to the members of the Board of Trustees of the Public Health Trust only in the manner and to the extent hereinafter provided. It is declared to be the intent of the Commission, as expressed in this subsection, to provide that the Conflict of Interest Ordinance shall not operate to preclude individuals from serving as Trustees on the basis of interests relating to Miami-Dade County when such interests do not conflict with the Trust. Wherever in the Conflict of Interest Ordinance reference is made to Miami-Dade County, that reference shall be deemed and construed to be a reference to the Public Health Trust; wherever in the Conflict of Interest Ordinance reference is made to the Board of County Commissioners, that reference shall be deemed and construed to be a reference to the Board of Trustees of the Public Health Trust; and wherever in the Conflict of Interest Ordinance reference is made to the Commissioners of the Board of County Commissioners, that reference shall be deemed to be a reference to the voting members of the Board of Trustees of the Public Health Trust. (d) Appointment and removal of Trustees. Five (5) Voting Trustees shall be appointed by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners after having been selected by the Commission from persons nominated by a Nominating Council established and described herein. Prior to September 1st of each year, the Nominating Council shall submit to the Commission a list of nominees containing a total number of names which is equal to one (1) nominee for each vacancy on the Board of Trustees plus two (2) additional nominees. The Commission shall select and appoint the voting Trustees from the list of nominees submitted by the Nominating Council. The Nominating Council shall select each nominee by individual majority vote. In the event of a tie vote, the candidate shall not be designated as a nominee. (1)The Nominating Council, hereinafter known as the Public Health Trust Nominating Council, shall be comprised of the following nine (9) voting members: five (5) voting Trustees of the Public Health Trust as designated by the Chairperson of the Public Health Trust; the President of the South Florida AFL-CIO or his or her designee; the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners or a Commissioner designated by the Chairperson; the Mayor or his or her designee; and the Chairperson of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation or another member of the delegation appointed by Chairperson of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation. The Chairperson of the Trust shall chair the Nominating Council. The presence of five (5) Council members shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of the Nominating Council. When being considered for reappointment any Voting Trustee under consideration shall absent himself or herself from the Nominating Council meetings during the discussions on the reappointment and shall not vote on, or participate in any way, in said matter. The Mayor and the County Attorney shall provide appropriate staff support to the Council. The sole function of the Nominating Council shall be to solicit, screen (including, but not limited to, reference reviews and background screening of each nominee), interview and recommend for appointment the best qualified candidate for each vacancy on the Trust Board. The membership of the Board of Trustees should be representative of the community at large and should reflect the racial, gender, ethnic and disabled make-up of the community. The Council should consider the most current demographic statistics from Miami-Dade County. Said Council and the procedures under which it will operate shall be approved by the Board of County Commissioners. All meetings of the Nominating Council shall be audio recorded and minutes of the proceedings shall be transcribed and maintained by the Clerk of the Board of the County Commission. (2)The Commission may ratify appointment of the remaining Voting Trustees as follows: One (1) member of the Trust Board shall be designated by the Mayor in writing, and a copy thereof shall be filed with the Clerk of the Commission: one (1) member of the Trust Board shall be designated by the Chairperson of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation in writing, and a copy thereof shall be filed with the Clerk of the Commission. Upon receipt of any written designation to fill a designated vacancy by the Mayor or the Chairperson of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation, the Clerk of the Commission shall serve copies on the Nominating Council. The Nominating Council shall conduct reference reviews and background screening for each designee. Upon completion, the Council shall submit the results to the Clerk of the Commission. The Clerk shall serve copies of the written designations and the review and screening results to the Commission. The designations then shall be presented at the next regularly scheduled Commission meeting for review. Absent any disapproval at the next regularly scheduled Commission meeting, the designees shall be deemed ratified by the Commission and shall be deemed appointed to the Trust Board. (3)At any time that the Commission has established a Financial Recovery Board under Section 25A-9(c)(5) herein, then upon expiration thereof, the members of the Recovery Board shall become the Voting Trustees of the reestablished Board of Trustees. The Nominating Council shall convene not less than ninety (90) days prior to the conclusion of the tenure of Financial Recovery Board for the purpose of assigning the members of the expiring Recovery Board to staggered initial terms as voting members of the reestablished Board of Trustees and submitting said assignments to the Commission for ratification and appointment by resolution. The Nominating Council shall stagger the initial terms for the voting members of the reestablished Board of Trustees as follows: (i) one (1) voting member designated by the Nominating Council shall serve an initial term of four (4) years; (ii) two (2) voting members designated by the Nominating Council shall serve an initial term of three (3) years; (iii) two (2) voting members designated by the Nominating Council shall serve an initial term of one (1) year: and (iv) the two (2) voting members designated by the Mayor or Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation shall serve an initial term of two (2) years each. Voting members appointed to the reestablished Board of Trustees for a term of less than three (3) years shall remain eligible to serve three (3) consecutive and complete terms of two (2) years. Voting members appointed to an initial term of three (3) or more years shall be eligible to serve one (1) additional term of three (3) years. In the event of a vacancy during the term of a voting Trustee, the Trust shall notify the Commission of the vacancy and shall request that it be filled as part of the annual appointment process or by special convening of the Public Health Trust Nominating Council. A Trustee may be removed by a majority vote of the Board of County Commissioners for cause. (e) Tenure of Trustees. Three (3) of the voting Trustees designated by the Nominating Council shall serve staggered terms of three (3) years each. Said voting Trustees shall be permitted to serve no more than two (2) consecutive and complete terms of three (3) years each. The remaining voting Trustees shall serve staggered terms of two (2) years each. Said voting Trustees shall be permitted to serve no more than three (3) consecutive and complete terms of two (2) years each. The term of a designee of the Mayor shall be coterminous with the term of the appointing Mayor and until the successor Mayor replaces the designee. The term of a designee of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation shall be coterminous with the term of the appointing Chairperson of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation and until the successor Chairperson replaces the designee. (f)Organization, powers and duties of the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall organize after the members thereof have qualified to serve and shall elect one (1) of its voting members as Chairperson and one (1) of its voting members as Vice-Chairperson and shall designate a Secretary who may or may not be a member of the Board, and such other officers as the Board of Trustees may determine to be necessary. In addition: (1)The Board of Trustees shall hold regular meetings in accordance with the bylaws of the Trust and the Board may hold such other meetings as it deems necessary. The Trust shall hold and televise regular meetings of the Board of Trustees in Commission chambers. The regular meetings shall not conflict with the meeting schedule for the Board of County Commissioners or its committees. At the discretion of the Trust, other meetings may be held and televised in the Commission chambers. The Trust shall request use of Commission chambers for regular or other meetings of the Board of Trustees through the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners. The Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners shall have final authority to approve the scheduling of such regular or other meetings of the Board of Trustees in the Commission chambers. A copy of each agenda item for regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be furnished to the voting members of the Board of Trustees not later than four (4) working days before a vote may be called on the item. The provisions of this four (4) day requirement shall be deemed waived unless asserted by a voting member before the Board of Trustees takes action on the resolution, motion or other item in question. If any regular, special or other meeting of the Board of Trustees held in Commission chambers shall commence or continue past regular working hours of County staff whereby overtime charges or other expenses are incurred, then the Trust shall not be charged, billed or obligated to pay or reimburse the County for any such overtime charges or other expenses. Except as provided by law, all meetings of the Board shall be public and audio recorded and written minutes of the proceedings thereof shall be maintained by the Office of Internal Audit, as such term is hereafter defined. All actions taken at the meetings of the Board shall be promptly and properly recorded. Copies of all minutes and resolutions of the Board shall be forwarded to the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners no later than ten (10) days subsequent to any meeting of the Board of Trustees. (2)In exercising the powers and carrying out the duties otherwise provided by this chapter, the Board of Trustees shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities customarily vested in Trustees and, to the extent not in conflict therewith, shall also have the powers, duties and responsibilities customarily vested in the Board of Directors of a private corporation. (3)As governing body of the Trust, the Board of Trustees shall exercise supervisory control over the operation, maintenance, and governance of all designated facilities and of all functions and activities taking place in connection with the operation of designated facilities. (4)The Board of Trustees shall make, adopt and amend bylaws and rules and regulations for the Board's governance and for the operation, governance, and maintenance of designated facilities. Such bylaws and amendments thereto shall not be valid until approved by the Board of County Commissioners and shall not, without, approval of the Commission, be inconsistent with ordinances of the County. Unless otherwise provided in the bylaws approved by the Board of County Commissioners, no item shall be placed on an agenda of a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees or considered by the Board of Trustees, unless the item has been considered first by a committee of the Board of Trustees and forwarded after such consideration to the full Board of Trustees as hereinafter provided. A committee of the Board of Trustees may take one of the following actions with respect to each matter before the committee for action: (i)Recommend favorably;(ii)Recommend favorably with committee amendment(s);(iii)Forward without recommendation, upon the unanimous vote of the members of the committee who are present;(iv)Receive a report;(v)Lay the matter on the table resulting in the matter not being placed on an agenda of the Board of Trustees; or(vi)Defer or take no action on an item for a maximum of two consecutive committee meetings. Deferral of or failure to act on a matter beyond two consecutive meetings shall cause the matter to be laid on the table, as set forth in the preceding subparagraph. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever action can not be taken because the vote of the committee members on an item has resulted in a tie, and no other available motion on an item is made and approved before the next item is called for consideration or before a recess or adjournment is called, whichever occurs first, the item shall be deemed to be laid on the table, as set forth in the preceding subparagraph; such item shall be reintroduced only in accordance with the renewal provisions of subparagraph (x) of this section. (vii)An item that has not been considered by a committee may be placed on the agenda of the Board of Trustees if the chairperson of the committee to which the item has been referred requests a waiver in writing and the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees concurs. (viii)A matter that has not been considered by a committee may be placed on the agenda of the Board of Trustees to meet a public emergency of the Public Health Trust as determined in writing by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. Time sensitive matters with little or no financial impact may be placed on an agenda of the Board of Trustees by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees without having been considered by a committee. (ix)Any committee action taken pursuant to subparagraph (i) through (vi) of this section may be reconsidered only at the same meeting at which the action was taken. A motion to reconsider an item resulting in a tie vote is out of order and no such motion may be reconsidered. (x)Once an item is laid on the table in a committee, the proposed item may not be brought before that committee again during the three (3) month period following the date the item is laid on the table (subject to the provisions of subparagraph (ix) hereof), unless an application for renewal made by two-thirds (2/3) of the committee members is first submitted to the chairperson of the committee. (xi)The following matters may be heard directly by the Board of Trustees: special or citizen's presentations; resolutions recommending to the Commission the naming or renaming of Trust designated facilities; settlements; resolutions related to contract lobbyist conflict waiver requests; and resolutions expressing intent. In addition, the Trust bylaws, adopted in accordance with this Chapter, may delineate additional matters that may be heard directly by the Board of Trustees without committee deliberation. (5)The Board of Trustees shall be empowered to appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the Trust and to remove such an appointee. There shall be a special Trust Compensation and Evaluation Committee which shall consist of seven (7) voting members including the Chairperson of the Public Health Trust, three (3) Trustees appointed by the Chairperson of the Public Health Trust, the Mayor or a Commissioner designated by the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners and a Commissioner designated by the Chairperson, or, alternatively, in the discretion of the Commission Chairperson, two (2) Commissioners designated by the chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners. The special Compensation and Evaluation Committee shall make recommendations to the Trust through the Trust Executive Committee regarding compensation for the Trust Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Trustees shall annually evaluate the performance of the Trust Chief Executive Officer and refer such evaluation to the special Trust Compensation and Evaluation Committee for the compensation recommendation it deems appropriate, based on the Board's performance evaluation of the Trust Chief Executive Officer. (6)There shall be a Trust/Medical Schools Annual Operating Agreement Negotiating Committee (the "Trust/Medical Schools AOA Committee"). The Trust Chief Executive Officer shall have responsibility to negotiate the Annual Operating Agreements with the University of Miami and Florida International University and shall submit their recommendations regarding the Annual Operating Agreements to the Trust/Medical Schools AOA Committee for its review and approval. The Trust/Medical Schools AOA Committee shall make recommendations regarding the Annual Operating Agreements to the Board of Trustees. The Trust/Medical Schools AOA Committee shall consist of seven (7) voting members including the Chairperson of the Public Health Trust, four (4) Trustees appointed by the Chairperson of the Public Health Trust, the Mayor or designee, and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners or designee. (g) Designation of office space and the hiring of staff. It shall be within the discretion of the Trust to designate office space and to hire staff to direct and coordinate Trust activities. (h) Protection from personal liability. The Trustees shall be included as insured within the terms of the comprehensive general and professional liability insurance policies of the County for the protection of individual members of County boards while such members are acting within the scope of their duties. The Trustees shall while acting within the scope of their duties also be entitled to personal liability protection, to the same extent that members of other County boards have such protection, from funds set aside by the County to satisfy claims not payable from insurance proceeds by virtue of loss deductible clauses in liability insurance policies. The Board of Trustees shall be empowered to obtain such additional Trustees' liability insurance as the Board shall determine to be necessary, and the expense of such insurance shall be an expense of the Trust. (Ord. No. 73-69, § 3, 7-30-73; Ord. No. 76-65, § 1, 7-6-76; Ord. No. 80-81, § 1, 7-15-80; Ord. No. 82-116, § 1, 12-21-82; Ord. No. 83-43, § 1, 6-21-83; Ord. No. 88-6, § 1, 2-2-88; Ord. No. 91-63, § 1, 6-18-91; Ord. No. 93-144, § 1, 12-14-93; Ord. No. 94-67, § 1, 5-3-94; Ord. No. 98-40, § 1, 3-31-98; Ord. No. 02-5, § 1, 1-29-02; Ord. No. 03-182, § 4, 9-9-03; Ord. No. 05-85, § 1, 5-3-05; Ord. No. 05-216, § 1, 12-6-05; Ord. No. 06-53, § 1, 4-25-06; Ord. No. 09-97, § 1, 11-3-09; Ord. No. 10-30, § 1, 5-4-10; Ord. No. 10-54, §§ 1, 2, 9-21-10; Ord. No. 10-55, § 1, 9-21-10; Ord. No. 10-57, § 1, 9-21-10; Ord. No. 11-25, § 1, 5-3-11; Ord. No. 11-29, § 1, 5-3-11; Ord. No. 11-40, § 2, 7-7-11; Ord. No. 12-113, § 1, 12-18-12) Annotations—CAO's 76-26, 77-65, 77-68, 79-29, 80-28, 81-38. Sec. 25A-4. Powers and duties of the Trust. In connection with its responsibilities for the operation, maintenance, and governance of designated facilities, the Trust, acting through its governing body, shall be authorized to exercise such powers and shall be required to perform such duties as are hereinafter provided. (a) Power to act. The Trust shall be empowered to sue and be sued, to plead and be impleaded, to contract and be contracted with, and to have an official seal and alter the same. This provision shall not be construed to in any way affect the laws relating to governmental immunity. (b) Health care delivery policies. (1) Planning for designated facilities. The Trust shall annually develop and recommend to the County Commission policies for the admission of hospital patients, the determination of the indigent status of patients and health care delivery in the designated facilities of the Trust, including primary, secondary and tertiary health care. The Trust shall also develop and recommend to the County Commission long range plans in five-year intervals for the delivery of health care services in designated facilities of the Trust. (2) Countywide planning. The Trust shall have no responsibility for countywide healthcare planning and such planning shall be the responsibility and within the jurisdiction of the Miami-Dade County Office of Countywide Healthcare Planning, provided however that the operation, maintenance and governance of and planning for the Trust designated facilities wherever situated within Miami-Dade County shall be and remain the sole responsibility of the Trust, subject to the Board of County Commissioners' power to designate additional facilities or to declassify and remove from the jurisdiction of the Trust facilities which have previously been designated. (3) Submittal of planning recommendations for designated facilities. The Trust shall formally present its annual recommendations for health care delivery in its designated facilities at an annual, joint meeting to be called by the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners and to be held between the Commission and the Trust no later than July 1st of each year. (4) Compliance. The Trust shall comply with the health care policies established by the Board of County Commissioners. When the Commission establishes or changes policies relating to hospital admissions or medical indigency, it shall,in order to avoid the promulgation of unfunded mandates, through the County Manager and Chief Executive Officer of the Trust, identify in consultation with the Trust, an appropriate source of funding necessary to carry out such policies. (c) Contracts. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the Trust, as an agent and instrumentality of Miami-Dade County, Florida, shall be authorized to act for Miami-Dade County in the performance and enforcement of all contracts pertaining to designated facilities and existing on the effective date of this chapter, such contracts as are properly within the powers and duties of the Trust. The contractual powers of the Trust shall be subject to the following limitations: (1)The Trust shall not, without the prior approval of the Board of County Commissioners, enter into or amend any contract which shall require the expenditure of funds in excess of the amounts appropriate in the contractual services category of the section of the County budget pertaining to the operation of the Trust. (2)The Trust shall not, without prior approval of the County Commission, enter into or alter any contract the effect of which is to change the contractual relationship between Miami-Dade County and the University of Miami as set forth in the contract between the University and the County entered into on December 18, 1952, and as amended from time to time. The original Basic Affiliation Agreement between the Trust and Florida International University shall be ratified by the Board of County Commissioners. Subsequent to ratification, the Trust shall not, without prior approval of the County Commission, enter into or alter any contract the effect of which is to change the contractual relationship with Florida International University as set forth in the Basic Affiliation Agreement and as amended from time to time. (3)The Trust shall not, without prior approval of the County Commission, enter into or alter any contract the effect of which is to change substantially health care delivery policies established by the Board of County Commissioners. (4)The Trust shall not be authorized to enter into a contract with any labor union or other organization representing employees without first having obtained the approval of the Board of County Commissioners. It is specifically provided that contracts and amendments thereto executed by the Trust, or other obligations incurred by the Trust, shall not be binding upon Miami-Dade County. In the event that the Trust shall be revoked, obligations of the Trust shall only be enforceable against Miami-Dade County to the extent that such obligations would have been enforceable with regard to personal property which was in the possession of the Trust and with regard to business income which would have come into the possession of the Trust had the Trust not been revoked. The Trust shall comply with the formal bid requirements of Section 5.03(D) of the Charter of Miami-Dade County, Florida, and for such purpose the term "Board" as used in Section 5.03(D) shall be construed to be "Board of Trustees" and the term "manager" shall be construed to be "Chief Executive Officer of the Trust." For all competitively bid contracts in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the construction, alteration, and/or repair, including painting or decorating of "designated facilities" that are public buildings or public works, the Trust shall comply with the provisions of Section 2-11.16 of the Code, as same may be amended from time to time, and the administrative procedures adopted pursuant thereto. (d) Property. The Trust shall have the authority to purchase or otherwise obtain title in its own name to personal property and shall be authorized to sell or otherwise lawfully dispose of personal property. The Trust shall subject to prior approval of the County Commission be authorized to purchase or otherwise obtain real property, the title to which shall be vested in Miami-Dade County and the possession and operating control of which shall be held in Trust for Miami-Dade County under the provisions of this chapter. The Trust shall not be authorized to sell, convey, mortgage, or otherwise impair or encumber the title to real property, provided however, that the Trust shall be authorized to lease real property either as lessee or lessor for any number of years and upon any terms and conditions. The leasing of any real property by the Trust as lessor shall be in accordance with the requirements of Section 125.35, Florida Statutes. The Trust shall not, without having previously obtained the approval of the Commission, destroy, replace, or abandon real property. The Trust shall be authorized to maintain and repair designated facilities and may alter, modify, or made additions to designated facilities whenever such changes are necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of such facilities. (e) Personnel. The Trust shall be empowered to appoint, remove, and suspend employees or agents of the Trust, to fix their compensation, and to adopt personnel and management policies, subject to Board of County Commissioners approval or disapproval. Absent any action by the Board of County Commissioners, personnel and management policies established by the Board of Trustees shall be considered final. Employees who were initially County employees and reclassified as Trust employees as the result of the original enactment of Chapter 25A shall be entitled to continue their participation in either the State and County Officers and Employees Retirement System or the Florida Retirement System or both such retirement systems. The Trust shall assure employees a process of appeal with regard to disciplinary or other official action. [(1) Reserved.] (2) Labor agreements. The County Labor Relations Office and the County Personnel Department shall be permitted to participate in the negotiation of labor agreements with organizations representing Trust employees, however, the Board of Trustees and the management of designated facilities shall be authorized to assume the primary role in such negotiations. (3) Classified service of the Public Health Trust; exceptions therefrom. The classified service of the Trust shall comprise all positions in the Trust service existing on May 1, 1975, or thereafter established, except the following: (a)President, Senior Vice-Presidents, Division Directors, Administrative Director of Patient Care Services and their immediate assistants, and all secretaries to the foregoing. (b)Patients employed in designated facilities.(c)Persons employed in a professional or scientific capacity to make or conduct a temporary and specific inquiry, investigation or examination on behalf of or by the authority of the Trust. (d)Trust attorneys and assistants.(e)Persons who are jointly employed by the Trust and any institute of higher learning.(f)Residents, interns and students in designated facilities.(g)Employees of those programs or parts thereof which are supported or funded from federal, charitable or foundation sources and which are designated by resolution of the Board of Trustees on the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer of the Trust. Employment within the classified service category shall be based on standards and qualifications approved by appropriate Trust staff and the Chief Executive Officer of the Trust. (f) Appointment of medical staff and approval of bylaws. The Trust shall appoint the staff of physicians to practice in designated facilities and shall require that the bylaws, rules, and regulations of the medical staff of such facilities be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval. Such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be in accordance with the standards of all relevant accrediting organizations. (g) Rates and charges. The Trust, in compliance with applicable law, shall be empowered to establish rates and charges for those persons using the facilities of or receiving care or assistance from the Trust and to collect money pursuant to such rates and charges. Rates and charges shall be based upon the following factors: Costs of services and supplies rendered, the prevailing rates and charges of health care facilities in the community, the goal of minimizing the dependence upon tax revenues and maximizing the availability of health care provided by designated Trust facilities. (h) Acceptance of gifts. The Trust shall have the authority to accept gifts of money, services, or personal property. All such gifts may be subject to such rules, conditions and terms as the Trust may determine. Subject to the prior approval of the Commission, the Trust may accept gifts of real property, the title of which shall be in Miami-Dade County. All gifts shall be held in trust pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. When accepting gifts of services and personal property that are "in kind," including for construction projects and related architectural, engineering, design and landscaping services, the Trust shall be exempt from all competitive bidding requirements and other programs otherwise mandated by the Code of Miami-Dade County for Public Health Trust contracts, provided additional costs, if any, are funded by a not-for-profit organization whose primary purpose is to support the activities of the Trust. An "in kind" donation is one in which the donor itself, or through an entity controlled by the donor, provides the personal property or performs the services. In addition, in order to attract private funding for construction projects that are not in kind and that the Trust would either not otherwise undertake or would have to postpone, the Trust may accept from a not-for-profit organization whose primary purpose is to support the activities of the Trust gifts of construction projects, including the building, renovating, retrofitting, restoration, painting, altering or repairing of any Trust facility, and all services and personal property related to such construction projects, provided that each donation of such a construction project shall not exceed five million dollars ($5,000,000) and is fully funded by such not-for-profit organization. All gifts of such construction projects shall be exempt from all competitive bidding requirements and other programs otherwise mandated by the Code of Miami-Dade County for Public Health Trust contracts, provided that the not-for-profit and the contractors on the construction project agree to be bound by public records law to the same extent as a Trust contractor providing such personal property or services. The not-for-profit organization shall file a report with the Public Health Trust and Board of County Commissioners every six (6) months documenting its activities pursuant to this paragraph. The Trust by rule or contract shall implement procedures to comply with state law requirements mandating competitive bidding for construction projects and assure that donations of specific construction projects meet all lawful requirements and Trust standards of responsibility. (i) Intergovernmental cooperation. The Trust shall have the authority to cooperate with and contract with any government agency or instrumentality, federal, state, county, or municipal. The operating relationship between the Trust and Miami-Dade County shall be set forth in an annual agreement the purpose of which shall be to implement applicable provisions of this chapter. The Chief Executive Officer of the Trust and the County Manager shall meet for the purpose of negotiating an annual operating agreement. Such negotiating shall take place prior to September 1 of each year so that the Board of Trustees and Board of County Commissioners may approve the agreement in September of the applicable year. There shall be a Trust/Miami-Dade County Annual Operating Agreement Committee (the "Trust/County Committee"). The Trust's Chief Executive Officer shall submit his recommendations regarding the Annual Operating Agreement between the Trust and the County to the Trust/County Committee for its review and approval. The Trust/County Committee shall make recommendations regarding the Annual Operating Agreement to the Board of Trustees. The Trust/County Committee shall consist of seven (7) voting members including the Chairperson of the Public Health Trust, the Chief Executive Officer of the Public Health Trust, three (3) Trustees appointed by the Chairperson of the Public Health Trust, the Mayor, and the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners. The County Manager shall simultaneously submit the agreement to the Commission for its approval. (j) Compliance with law and Commission directives. The Trust shall comply with all laws and regulations of the United States, the State of Florida, and Miami-Dade County, including but not limited to the laws relating to the expenditure of funds and the keeping of records and inventories and the operation and governance of health care facilities. The Trust shall also comply with any Commission directive to the Trust, as set forth from time to time by resolution of the Commission. A resolution adopting a directive that undoes or modifies action of the Board of Trustees or any of its committees shall require an affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of those Commissioners then in office. (k) Establishment of alternative health care delivery systems. The Trust shall be empowered to establish, participate in and/or contract with alternative health care delivery systems, including but not limited to prepaid health care plans. (l) Funding and support of primary health care facilities. The trust shall establish criteria and standards for the provision of financial and programmatic support of primary health care facilities operating within Miami-Dade County. The trust shall also formulate criteria and standards for the establishment of new primary health care facilities within the County. (1)Any funding allocated to the primary health care facilities complying with the established criteria and standards shall be allocated regardless of whether the trust owns or controls the facilities. (2)Any funding by the trust for the purpose of capital expenditures shall be allocated from the trust's Funded Depreciation Account. Any funding by the trust for the purpose of operating expenditures shall be allocated from the trust's general operating funds. (3)Any primary health care facility which does not comply with the criteria and standards established by the trust shall not be eligible for any funding from the trust or Miami-Dade County. (m) Office of Internal Auditor, Public Accountability and Information. The Trust shall create an Office of Internal Auditor, Public Accountability and Information ("Office of Internal Audit"). The purpose of the Office of Internal Audit shall be to (i) provide internal auditing functions, (ii) act as the central depository for public information relating to public record requests, (iii) review and account for any and all relationships between the Public Health Trust and private entities, and (iv) interface and coordinate with and serve as the Trust's liaison to the Miami-Dade County Office of Inspector General. The Office of Internal Audit shall report directly to the Chairperson of the Trust. This Office through the Chief Executive Officer shall make monthly written reports to the Board of Trustees at its regular meetings. The written reports shall also be disseminated to the Mayor, Board of County Commissioners, County Manager, the Office of Countywide Healthcare Planning, the Commission Auditor, and Miami-Dade Office of Inspector General. The Chief Executive Officer of the Trust shall develop written policies and procedures for the organization and operation of the Office of Internal Audit and submit the same to the Board of Trustees for approval. Upon the Trust's creation of the Office of Internal Audit, the Trust shall do all things necessary or required to effectuate and merge all existing internal auditing functions into this Office and to provide sufficient funding and staffing. (n) Trust Funding of Service Providers that are Foundations and Non-Profit Entities. Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, the Trust shall not pay or provide funding to foundations or non-profit entities unless such funding is provided or paid based on a cost reimbursement methodology. The contract between the Trust and the foundation or non-profit service provider shall obligate the foundation or non-profit to receive funding on the basis of cost reimbursement methodology, including proper submission of documentation to support reimbursement and appropriate use of public funds and further obligate the foundation or non-profit entity to segregate all funds received from the Trust to ensure that the funds at no time are commingled with the funds of the foundation or non-profit entity. Without limiting any other provisions of the Code, the Miami-Dade Office of Inspector General and the County shall at all times be empowered to conduct audits of any contract between the Trust and foundations or non-profit entities. The Trust shall submit quarterly reports to the Commission committee of jurisdiction for the Trust regarding the funds reimbursed as provided in this section. Such quarterly reports shall include, but not limited to, the amount of expenditures reimbursed by the Trust for each foundation or non-profit entity for each month of the quarter reported, the categories of expenditures reimbursed, the balance of funding remaining under the contract, and such other matters as directed by the Chairperson of the Commission committee of jurisdiction to be included in the quarterly report. (Ord. No. 73-69, § 4, 7-30-73; Ord. No. 75-103, § 1, 11-4-75; Ord. No. 77-84, § 1, 11-15-77; Ord. No. 82-67, § 3, 7-20-82; Ord. No. 84-65, § 2, 7-17-84; Ord. No. 85-67, § 1, 9-18-85; Ord. No. 89-90, § 1, 9-26-89; Ord. No. 91-63, § 1, 6-18-91; Ord. No. 92-45, § 6(b), 6-2-92; Ord. No. 92-76, § 1, 7-21-92; Ord. No. 93-41, § 1, 5-18-93; Ord. No. 94-197, § 1, 11-1-94; Ord. No. 94-210, § 1, 11-15-94; Ord. No. 95-151, § 1, 9-14-95; Ord. No. 98-40, § 1, 3-31-98; Ord. No. 03-182, § 4, 9-9-03; Ord. No. 07-166, § 1, 11-6-07; Ord. No. 10-28, § 1, 5-4-10; Ord. No. 10-54, § 3, 9-21-10; Ord. No. 11-29, § 2, 5-3-11; Ord. No. 11-40, § 2, 7-7-11; Ord. No. 11-43, § 1, 7-7-11) Sec. 25A-5. Financial support for the Public Health Trust. The Trust shall establish a fiscal year which coincides with that of Miami-Dade County, and the County shall provide the Trust with financial support pursuant to the official County budget. The Trust shall timely submit to the Board of County Commissioners a Trust budget request pertaining to operating and capital expenditures, which request shall not be implemented until approved by the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of Trustees shall consider and approve its budget request at special meeting of the Board of Trustees to be held in the Commission Chambers. At the special meeting, the only item to be considered shall be the Trust budget request contemplated by this section to be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners. At such special meeting, the Board of Trustees shall hold a public hearing on its budget request. The Board of Trustees shall adopt the budget request by a majority vote of the full Board of Trustees. The Trust budget request shall be prepared on official County budget forms in a format prescribed by the County Manager, shall be reviewed in a manner similar to that in which requests of other County departments are reviewed, and shall be incorporated in the proposed budget and timely submitted to the Commission each year. The methods by which Miami-Dade County shall provide financial support to the Trust shall be as hereinafter described. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit the Trust from submitting to the Commission supplemental budget results which, if approved by the Commission, shall constitute amendments to the official County budget. (a) Funding. The Trust shall develop for each fiscal year accounting, budgeting, and financial management systems which will enable Miami-Dade County to provide the Trust, pursuant to the official County budget, with funding to be utilized for the cost of services and supplies provided to medically indigent persons as defined in the annual operating agreement between the Trust and Miami-Dade County. (b) Spending of bond proceeds, issuance of new bonds, and borrowing of money. The Trust shall not be empowered to make expenditures of any monies derived from the sale of bonds by Miami-Dade County unless the Trust shall have been specifically authorized by the Board of County Commissioners to make such expenditures. The Trust shall be permitted to request the County Commission to effectuate the issuance of bonds, and to permit the Trust to borrow money by submitting to the Commission a duly enacted resolution of the Board of Trustees. The Commission shall consider any such resolution requesting the issuance of bonds or for the Trust to borrow money, however, the Commission shall be under no obligation to take affirmative action upon such requests. (c) General financial provisions. The County shall convey to the Trust all accounts receivable pertaining to the designated facilities, and the Trust shall be subject to, assume the liability for, and be authorized to pay all accounts payable pertaining to the designated facilities. The Trust shall have the authority to establish necessary banking accounts in its own name and to make cash disbursements. The Trust shall make an annual report and an audited accounting to Miami-Dade County for all receipts and disbursements of money during each fiscal year, which accounting shall be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners no later than ninety (90) days subsequent to the close of such fiscal year and which accounting shall be in a manner consistent with and in a format pursuant to that prescribed by the County Manager. Upon request, the Trust shall within thirty (30) days submit to the Board of County Commissioners a full financial report, including but not limited to, operating statistics such as admissions, occupancy rate, revenue and expenses, and a narrative outlining the achievements and problems, if any, of the Trust during the preceding quarter. On a quarterly basis, the Trust through its Chief Financial Officer or designee shall collect and provide to the Board of County Commissioners for its analysis and approval specific patient and health service data elements including, but not limited to, data regarding (i) number of patients served, (ii) patient demographics and patient origin/zip code information, (iii) patient diagnosis, (iv) services rendered, (v) patient charges by service category, (vi) lengths of stay and patient visits, (vii) payment source, (viii) site of service and (ix) such other data elements requested by the Commission or agreed upon by the Trust and the Office of Countywide Healthcare Planning. Prior to March 31st of each year, the Trust shall submit to the Board of County Commissioners via a special meeting of the Board of County Commissioners in chambers a report to the Board of County Commissioners and the public that reflects the results of its annual audit for the prior fiscal year performed by the Trust's external auditor. At least seven (7) days prior to the special meeting, the Trust shall hand deliver copies of the audit by the Trust's external auditor to the Mayor, Chairperson and members of the Board of County Commissioners, the County Manager, Office of Countywide Healthcare Planning and Office of Inspector General. The Internal Auditor of Miami-Dade County shall at all times have the right to audit all records of the Trust, and the external auditor of the County, at the direction of the Board of County Commissioners, shall be empowered to audit all records of the Trust. The Board of County Commissioners shall, after examining the Trust's annual report and accounting, determine whether there is net income, exclusive of County payments for services rendered, at the end of the fiscal year. The Board of County Commissioners may then appropriate such net income into the County's general revenues or leave such net income with the Trust for continued use in effecting the public purposes of the Trust; provided, however, in the event the Commissioners decide to leave such income with the Trust, the Commissioners shall still retain the right to withdraw such income at any future time. (Ord. No. 73-69, § 5, 7-30-73; Ord. No. 78-54, § 1, 7-18-78; Ord. No. 91-63, § 1, 6-18-91; Ord. No. 98-40, § 1, 3-31-98; Ord. No. 03-182, § 4, 9-9-03; Ord. No. 11-29, § 3, 5-3-11) Sec. 25A-6. Supporting services. Excepts as otherwise provided by this chapter, the Trust shall be authorized to develop and implement the supporting services systems necessary for carrying out the Trust's responsibilities. Such supporting systems shall include but shall not be limited to budgeting and accounting, liability coverage, quality assurance and utilization management, risk management functions related to care and safety of patients and all others within designated facilities, printing, delinquent account collections, information and computer services, architectural design and construction support services, security, physical maintenance, purchasing and materials management, and legal services. Supporting services may also be purchased from individuals or organizations or obtained from the County in a manner consistent with the method of County funding of the Trust. Before obtaining any supporting services from a source other than Miami-Dade County, the Trust shall determine the availability, cost advantage, and management advantage of obtaining such services from the County on a fee-for-service basis. (a) Purchasing and materials management. The Trust shall develop procedures for purchasing supplies, equipment and services and for managing materials and shall implement such procedures. (b) Security and legal services. From the effective date of this chapter, the Trust shall continue to utilize the services of the County with regard to security and legal services. (Ord. No. 73-69, § 6, 7-30-73; Ord. No. 91-63, § 1, 6-18-91) Sec. 25A-7. General provisions of the Trust. It is the intent of the Board of County Commissioners to create by this chapter and for the purposes set forth herein a Trust which may be modified or revoked in whole or in part by duly enacted ordinance of the Commission. The beneficiaries of that Trust shall be the people of Miami-Dade County who, with regard to the Trust, shall be represented only by the Board of County Commissioners. The County Manager shall at all times be empowered to conduct an administrative audit of designated facilities. Legal opinions by the County Attorney's Office pertaining to this chapter and Trust and to Chapter 73-102, Laws of Florida, 1973, shall be binding upon the Trust. The transfer of assets to the Trust constitutes a taking over in part of the function of the Board of County Commissioners by the Public Health Trust of Miami-Dade County, Florida. Pursuant to this chapter, the Trust is not to be restricted in the free use of the designated facilities and it is contemplated that the Trust will use the facilities to the extent of their useful lives. The Trust is not required to make any payments or give any consideration to Miami-Dade County, however, the Trust shall be required to properly maintain the designated facilities, and, except as otherwise provided by this chapter, may make necessary improvements to such facilities. (Ord. No. 73-69, § 7, 7-30-73; Ord. No. 91-63, § 1, 6-18-91) Sec. 25A-8. [Hospital exception.] Except where prohibited by state or federal law, any provision of the Code of Miami-Dade County, and any resolution or administrative order of the County requiring a contractor to execute or complete a form or affidavit as a condition of doing business with the Public Health Trust, shall not apply to the current, unexpired term of a contract that exists between a contractor and the Public Health Trust as a result of its acquisition of a new hospital. (Ord. No. 01-106, § 1, 6-19-01) Sec. 25A-9. Financial Sustainability. It is the intent of the Commission to promote, protect, maintain, and improve the health and safety of all residents and visitors of Miami-Dade County through a fully functioning and sustainable public health trust. (a) Conditions. The Commission finds that it is in the best interest of the public it serves to take action to preserve the Trust and to ensure its financial sustainability by requiring the Trust to notify the Commission, the Mayor and the Commission Auditor when any one of the following conditions occurs: (1)Trust failure to, within the same fiscal year in which due, timely make any applicable debt payments as a result of a lack of funds. (2)Trust failure to pay uncontested claims from creditors within ninety (90) days after the claim is presented, as a result of a lack of funds. (3)Trust failure to transfer at the appropriate time, due to a lack of funds:(i)Taxes withheld on the income of employees; or(ii)Employer and employee contributions for either federal social security or any pension, retirement, or benefit plan of an employee.(4)Trust failure to pay for one pay period, due to a lack of funds:(i)Wages and salaries owed to employees; or(ii)Retirement benefits owed to former employees.(5)An unreserved or total fund balance or retained earnings deficit, or unrestricted or total net assets deficit, as reported on the balance sheet or statement of net assets on the general purpose or fund financial statements, for which sufficient resources of the Trust, as reported on the balance sheet or statement of net assets on the general purpose or fund financial statements, are not available to cover the deficit. Resources available to cover reported deficits include net assets that are not otherwise restricted by federal, state, or local laws, bond covenants, contractual agreements, or other legal constraints. Fixed or capital assets, the disposal of which would impair the ability of the Trust to carry out its functions, are not considered resources available to cover reported deficits. (6)An advance of any County funds to the Trust, due to a lack of Trust funds to address operational needs, to support operational needs and expenses. (7)The Mayor reports that PHT management and/or the Board of Trustees are not making acceptable progress in developing and implementing a corrective action plan to address managerial and financial deficiencies in accordance with the letter agreement (dated March 23, 2010) entered into pursuant to Resolution No. R-323-10. (b) Notice. When one or more of the conditions specified in Subsection (a) have occurred, or likely will occur within one hundred twenty (120) days, the Trust shall submit written notice to the Mayor, Chairperson and members of the Commission, and the Commission Auditor. Upon receipt of such notice, the Chairperson of the Commission shall place the item on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly scheduled Commission meeting, or a special meeting may be called in accordance with Commission rules, in order to address the item. (c) Assistive measures. Upon notification by the Trust or another party that one or more of the conditions in Subsection (a) have occurred or likely will occur, the Commission shall determine whether the Trust needs assistance to resolve or prevent the condition. If assistance is needed, the Commission may implement assistive measures which may include any one, or any combination of, the following: (1) Management watch. The Commission may direct the Mayor or the Mayor's designee to place the Trust on management watch on such terms and conditions as the Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, deems appropriate, including the authority to assign support personnel and staffing to the Trust as needed. The Commission intends that the more stringent review and oversight of the Trust by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee would improve the functioning of the Trust and promote necessary planning, assessment and monitoring of the Trust's financial health, and ensure essential management to advance the Trust's financial sustainability. The Commission may direct the Mayor or the Mayor's designee to periodically report to the Commission on the Trust's compliance with the terms and condition of said management watch and the Trust's progress toward resolving the conditions specified in Subsection (a). The Trust shall remain under management watch for such period of time as determined by resolution of the Commission. (2) Recovery plan. The Commission may require and approve a plan, to be prepared by the Trust in consultation with the Mayor, or his or her designee, and the Board of County Commissioners prescribing actions that will cause the Trust to no longer be subject to this section. However, if the Commission establishes a Financial Recovery Board and requires preparation of a recovery plan, the Trust may prepare the recovery plan in consultation with the Financial Recovery Board as well as the Mayor, his or her designee, or the Commission. The plan shall be submitted to the Commission within sixty (60) days of the Commission's action requiring the plan, or such longer period of time as determined by the Commission. The Trust shall submit copies of the plan to the members of the Commission concurrently with submission to the Mayor. The plan must include, but need not be limited to: (i)Provision for payment in full of obligations outlined in Subsection (a), designated as priority items, that are currently due or will come due. (ii)Establishment of priority budgeting or zero-based budgeting in order to eliminate items that are not affordable.(iii)The prohibition of a level of operations which can be sustained only with nonrecurring revenues.(3) Audit. The Commission may direct the Commission Auditor, or the external auditor of the County to audit any or all records of the Trust in accordance with Section 25A-5(c) (General financial provisions), herein. The Commission Auditor or the County's external auditor shall consult with the Trust to identify any steps necessary to bring the books of account, accounting systems, financial procedures, and reports into compliance with applicable law. The Commission Auditor or the County external auditor shall report its preliminary findings to the Commission within sixty (60) days of audit commencement. The Trust and its internal and external auditors shall cooperate fully with the Commission Auditor, or the County's external auditor. (4) Technical Assistance. The Commission may provide technical assistance to the Trust. (5) Financial Recovery Board. The Commission may establish a Financial Recovery Board ("Recovery Board"). The County Commission's determination to establish a Recovery Board shall be by adoption of a resolution setting forth the time period such Board shall be in existence and the types of Board action which may be vetoed by the Commission and the timetables and procedures for exercise of such veto authority. Actions of the Recovery Board subject to Commission veto shall be filed by the Recovery Board with the Clerk of the County Commission, who shall place same on the next regularly scheduled County Commission agenda for County Commission consideration without the requirement for committee review. Such actions of the Recovery Board shall become effective upon the adjournment of the next regularly scheduled County Commission meeting unless vetoed by an affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of those Commissioners then in office. A County Commission veto of any action taken by the Recovery Board shall be final and determinative. Notwithstanding any provision of the Code to the contrary, the Recovery Board shall be authorized and empowered to serve as the governing body of the Trust effective upon appointment of at least four (4) members and subject to Commission veto authority all as provided herein. The Mayor and the County Attorney shall provide support to the Recovery Board. Additionally, the Recovery Board shall comply with any Commission directive to the Recovery Board, as set forth from time to time by resolution of the Commission. A resolution adopting a directive that undoes or modifies action of the Recovery Board or any of its committees shall require an affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of those Commissioners then in office. During the tenure of the Recovery Board, the governance powers of the currently sitting Trust Board of Trustees shall cease and the currently sitting Board of Trustees shall be dissolved and shall no longer serve as the governing body of the Trust. The terms of all currently sitting voting members of the Board of Trustees and ex officio members shall automatically expire upon appointment of four (4) members of the Recovery Board. During the tenure of the Recovery Board, the provision of Sections 25A-3(d) (Appointment and removal of Trustees), and 25A-3(e) (Tenure of Trustees), herein shall not apply. The Application of Sections 25A-3(d) and 25A-3(e), herein shall commence on the conclusion of the tenure of the Recovery Board. The Nominating Council set forth in Section 25A-3(d), herein shall convene in accordance with such section, except that the membership shall include five (5) members of the Financial Recovery Board in lieu of the voting Trustees of the Board of Trustees, not less than ninety (90) days prior to the conclusion of the tenure of the Recovery Board for the purpose of assigning members of the expiring Recovery Board to staggered initial terms as voting members of the reestablished Board of Trustees and submitting said assignments to the Commission for ratification. (i) Powers and duties. The Recovery Board shall hold regular meetings and record such meetings in accordance with the requirement for the Board of Trustees as described in Section 25A-3(f) (Organization, powers and duties of the Board of Trustees), herein. Except as specifically provided in Section 25A-9(c) (Assistive measures), herein, during its tenure, the Recovery Board shall have all of the powers, duties and responsibilities customarily vested in the Board of Trustees of the Trust and as provided for in Chapter 25A of the Code, except that those powers and duties shall be limited by the Commission's veto authority as provided herein. The Recovery Board shall exercise supervisory control over the operation, maintenance, and governance of all designated facilities and of all functions and activities taking place in connection with the operation of designated facilities and shall be authorized to exercise such powers as provided for in Section 25A-4 (Powers and duties of the Trust), herein, except as modified hereinafter: (A)Appointment and evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer. The Recovery Board shall be empowered to evaluate, appoint, suspend and remove a Chief Executive Officer of the Trust. The Recovery Board shall evaluate the Chief Executive Officer's performance periodically, at its discretion, but no less than annually. Any employment contract for a Chief Executive Officer appointed by the Recovery Board shall require prior County Commission approval before becoming effective. (B)Health care delivery policies. The Recovery Board shall develop policies, procedures and practices to promote successful operation of the Trust and its designated facilities and to ensure financial sustainability of the Trust. The Recovery Board shall recommend health care policies to be approved by the Commission relevant to the short and long term financial sustainability of the Trust and the designated facilities. (C)Intergovernmental cooperation. The proposed annual operating agreement between the Trust and Miami-Dade County, as described in Section 25A-4(i) (Intergovernmental cooperation), herein shall be approved by the Recovery Board and then submitted to the Board of County Commissioners for approval in September of the applicable year. During the tenure of the Recovery Board, the Trust/County Committee as described in Section 25A-4(i), herein, shall cease to meet, review, approve, and make recommendations regarding the Annual Operating Agreement. (D)Contracts. For purposes of compliance with the formal bid requirements of Section 5.03(D) of the Charter of Miami-Dade County, Florida, the term "Board" as used in Section 5.03(D) shall be construed to be "Recovery Board." (E)Personnel. Any personnel actions or policies taken or issued by the Recovery Board shall not be inconsistent with any applicable collective bargaining agreements, as amended. The Recovery Board shall recommend to the Commission policies for labor management and the negotiations of labor agreements with organizations representing Trust employees. Additionally, the Recovery Board shall recommend to the Commission proposed labor agreements negotiated with labor organizations representing Trust employees. Notwithstanding any other provision of Chapter 25A, the Commission may approve or take other action regarding the proposed agreement by a majority vote, except that the Commission may only disapprove or amend the proposed agreement by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of those Commissioners then in office. (F)Issuance of bonds and ability to borrow money. The Recovery Board shall be empowered to enact resolutions requesting that the County Commission effectuate the issuance of bonds or authorizing the Trust to borrow money. (G)UM Annual Operating Agreement Committee and FIU Annual Operating Agreement Committee. During the tenure of the Recovery Board, there shall be a UM Annual Operating Agreement Committee ("UM Committee") and a FIU Annual Operating Agreement Committee ("FIU Committee"). The Trust Chief Executive Officer shall negotiate the annual operating agreement with the University of Miami and shall submit his/her recommendations to the UM Committee. The Trust Chief Executive Officer shall also negotiate the annual operating agreement with Florida International University and shall submit his/her recommendations to the FIU Committee. The UM Committee and the FIU Committee shall make recommendation regarding the respective annual operating agreements to the Recovery Board. The UM Committee and the FIU Committee shall semi-annually review fiscal reconciliation reports of funds provided to UM and FIU respectively for services provided under the annual operating agreements, and shall report thereon to the Recovery Board. The UM Committee and the FIU Committee shall oversee the methods and manners by which the Trust holds the universities accountable for performing in accordance with the terms of the agreements and shall report thereon to the Recovery Board. The UM Committee and FIU Committee shall each consist of three (3) Recovery Board members as appointed by the Recovery Board Chairperson. (H)Reporting. Upon appointment, the Recovery Board shall report to the Commission monthly at a Board of County Commissioners scheduled meeting, or as otherwise determined by the Commission. (I)Additional powers. Upon appointment, the Recovery Board shall have the power to: approve or disapprove all budgets and budget amendments; establish an estimating conference process for determining and monitoring revenues, expenditures, cash flow and deficits; establish a fiscal sufficiency advisory board; make recommendations to the County Commission of any actions it may take to resolve the Trust financial condition; and perform other duties assigned by the County Commission. (ii) Recovery Board structure. (A)Composition and Qualifications. The Recovery Board shall be composed of seven (7) voting members, none of whom shall be an employee of the Trust. Each member of the Recovery Board shall be a United States citizen and a permanent resident and duly qualified elector of Miami-Dade County, unless the Commission waives the residency requirement in its discretion. Each member of the Recovery Board shall be of an outstanding reputation of integrity, responsibility and commitment to serving the community. Each member of the Recovery Board shall have experience in hospital operations, management, finance, business or other experience relevant to the Recovery Board's duties and responsibilities. No member of the Recovery Board shall have any conflict of interest, as defined in the Conflict of Interest Ordinance, with the Trust or its designated facilities. Members of the currently sitting Board of Trustees, or former Board of Trustees members, who meet the qualifications provided herein, may be nominated to serve on the Recovery Board. A member of the Recovery Board may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the Board of County Commissioners. (B)Organization. The Recovery Board, by majority vote following nomination, shall elect its Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The Recovery Board may adopt, modify, and amend the existing bylaws and rules and regulation of the Public Health Trust for the Recovery Board's governance and for the operation, governance, and maintenance of designated facilities. Such bylaws and amendments shall not be inconsistent with the ordinances of the County. The Recovery Board shall form subcommittees to assist in its work. The subcommittee membership shall not be limited to members of the Recovery Board. (C)Appointment. The Commission shall appoint four (4) members of the Recovery Board from a list of persons nominated by each Commission member. The Commission shall vote on all nominees. The four (4) nominees with the greatest number of votes shall be appointed as Recovery Board members. The Commission may ratify appointment of the remaining voting members as follows: One (1) member of the Recovery Board shall be designated by the Mayor in writing, and a copy thereof shall be filed with the Clerk of the Commission; one (1) member of the Recovery Board shall be designated by the Chairperson of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation in writing, and a copy thereof shall be filed with the Clerk of the Commission; one (1) member of the Recovery Board shall be designated by the President of the South Florida AFL-CIO in writing, and a copy thereof shall be filed with the Clerk of the Commission. Upon receipt of any written designation to fill an initial or subsequent vacancy by the Mayor, the Chairperson of the Miami-Dade Legislative Delegation, or the President of the South Florida AFL-CIO, the Clerk of the Commission shall serve copies on each member of the Commission. Any Commissioner may request that the designations be presented at the next regularly scheduled Commission meeting for review. Such request shall not be subject to committee review or to the four-day rule. Absent any disapproval at the next regularly scheduled Commission meeting, the designees shall be deemed ratified, and shall be deemed appointed to the Recovery Board. Upon any vacancy occurring on the Recovery Board, the Recovery Board shall notify the Chairperson of the Commission and shall request that the vacancy be filled as provided herein. (D)Term. The Recovery Board shall serve for no longer than twenty-four (24) months, or such shorter or longer period of time as determined by resolution of the Commission. The Recovery Board may recommend shortening or lengthening its tenure by submitting to the Commission a duly enacted resolution of the Recovery Board. The Commission shall consider any such resolution, however, the Commission shall be under no obligation to take affirmative action upon the recommendation. The Commission may consider, among other factors, whether the conditions specified in Subsection (a) have resolved, or are likely to resolve promptly, when determining whether to shorten or lengthen the Recovery Board's term. Upon conclusion of the term of the Recovery Board, the Board of Trustees shall be reestablished. The initial appointments to the reestablished Board of Trustees shall include all members of the expiring Recovery Board. Each voting Trustee shall serve the terms they are appointed to in accordance with Section 25A-3(d) (Appointment and removal of Trustees). Following the reestablishment of the Board of Trustees, all subsequent vacancies shall be addressed in accordance with the nominating process set forth in Sections 25A-3(d) (Appointment and removal of Trustees) and 25A-9(c)(6) (Financial sustainability), herein. (E)Bond. Before entering upon the duties of office, each appointee to the Recovery Board shall give bond in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) to the Clerk of the Commission for the faithful performance of the duties of office and shall take the prescribed oath of office. This bond also is required of currently sitting Trustees. Recovery Board members shall serve without compensation but shall be entitled to reimbursement for necessary expenses, including the expense of performance bonds, incurred in the discharge of their duties. (Ord. No. 10-32, § 1, 5-18-10; Ord. No. 11-40, § 2, 7-7-11; Ord. No. 11-43, § 2, 7-7-11; Ord. No. 11-63, § 1, 8-2-11; Ord. No. 12-04, § 2, 1-24-12; Ord. No. 12-113, § 2, 12-18-12)

,Chapter 25B PARKS AND RECREATION GENERALLY [1]



,Chapter 25C PAYMENT OF COSTS OF HOSPITAL CARE, TREATMENT AND MAINTENANCE [1]

Sec. 25C-1. Applicability.Sec. 25C-2. Prerequisite to recovery of damages; exception.Sec. 25C-3. Enforcement by lien authorized; scope.Sec. 25C-4. Perfection of lien; notice of filing.Sec. 25C-5. Recording of lien; filing fee.Sec. 25C-6. Validity of release or satisfaction of claims against third parties as to lienholder's rights in those claims.Sec. 25C-1. Applicability. The provisions of this Act [chapter] shall not be applicable to accidents or injuries within the purview of the Workmen's Compensation Act of this state. (Ch. 27032, § 6, Laws 1951) Sec. 25C-2. Prerequisite to recovery of damages; exception. No person shall be entitled to recover or receive damages on account of hospital care, treatment and maintenance unless he shall affirmatively show that he has paid the cost thereof. It is specifically provided, however, that in any action, suit or counterclaim brought on account of illness or injury, the plaintiff or counterclaimant may include as an item of damages the cost of such hospital care, treatment and maintenance, if prior to the trial of the action he shall have notified the lienholder referred to in this Act [chapter] of the pendency of such action or counterclaim; whereupon such lienholder shall have the right, without leave of court, to intervene in the case and prove the reasonable cost of such hospital care, treatment and maintenance. Any verdict that may be rendered in favor of the plaintiff or counterclaimant shall set forth the amount the jury finds to be due the lienholder for such hospital care, treatment and maintenance and the name of such lienholder. Any judgment rendered in the case in favor of the plaintiff or counterclaimant shall also be in favor of the lienholder in the amount set forth by the jury's verdict. (Ch. 27032, § 5, Laws 1951) Sec. 25C-3. Enforcement by lien authorized; scope. Every individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, institution and governmental unit, and every combination of any of the foregoing, operating a hospital in any county in this State having a population in excess of three hundred twenty-five thousand (325,000), according to the last preceding federal census, shall be entitled to a lien for all reasonable charges for hospital care, treatment and maintenance of ill or injured persons upon any and all causes of action, suits, claims, counterclaims and demands accruing to the persons to whom such care, treatment or maintenance are furnished or accruing to the legal representatives of such persons, and upon all judgments, settlements and settlement agreements rendered or entered into by virtue thereof, on account of illness or injuries giving rise to such causes of action, suits, claims, counterclaims, demands, judgment, settlement or settlement agreement and which necessitated or shall have necessitated such hospital care, treatment and maintenance. (Ch. 27032, § 1, Laws 1951) Sec. 25C-4. Perfection of lien; notice of filing. In order to perfect such lien, the executive officer or agent of a hospital, before, or within ten (10) days after, any such person shall have been discharged from such hospital, shall file in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court or the county in which such hospital shall be located, a verified claim in writing setting forth the name and address of such patient, as it shall appear on the records of such hospital, the name and location of such hospital, and the name and address of the executive officer or agent of such hospital, the dates of admission to and discharge of such patient therefrom, the amount claimed to be due for such hospital care, treatment and maintenance and, to the best knowledge of the person signing such claim, the names and addresses of all persons, firms or corporations claimed by such ill or injured person or by the legal representative of such person, to be liable on account of such illness or injuries; such claimant shall also, within one (1) day after filing of such claim or lien, mail a copy thereof by registered mail, postage prepaid, to each person, firm or corporation so claimed to be liable on account of such illness or injuries, at the address so given in such statement. The filing of such claim shall be notice thereof to all persons, firms or corporations who may be liable on account of such illness or injuries, whether or not they are named in such claim or lien, and whether or not a copy of such claim shall have been received by them. (Ch. 27032, § 2, Laws 1951) Sec. 25C-5. Recording of lien; filing fee. The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall endorse on such claim the date and hour of filing, shall provide a hospital lien book with proper index in which he shall record such claim, and shall show therein the date and hour of such filing. He shall be paid by the claimant as his fee for such filing and recording of each claim the sum of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25). (Ch. 27032, § 3, Laws 1951) Sec. 25C-6. Validity of release or satisfaction of claims against third parties as to lienholder's rights in those claims. No release or satisfaction of any action, suit, claim, counterclaim, demand, judgment, settlement or settlement agreement, or of any of them, shall be valid or effectual as against such lien unless such lienholder shall join therein or execute a release of such lien. Any acceptance of a release or satisfaction of any such cause of action, suit, claim, counterclaim, demand or judgment and any settlement of any of the foregoing in the absence of a release or satisfaction of the lien referred to in this Act [chapter] shall prima facie constitute an impairment of such lien; and the lienholder shall be entitled to an action at law for damages on account of such impairment, and in such action may recover from the one (1) accepting such release or satisfaction or making such settlement the reasonable cost of such hospital care, treatment and maintenance. Satisfaction of any judgment rendered in favor of the lienholder in any such action shall operate as a satisfaction of the lien. Any action by the lienholder shall be brought in the court having jurisdiction of the amount of the lienholder's claim and may be brought and maintained in the county wherein the lienholder has his, its or their residence or place of business. If the lienholder shall prevail in such action, the lienholder shall be entitled to recover from the defendant, in addition to costs otherwise allowed by law, all reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incident to the matter. (Ch. 27032, § 4, Laws of 1951)

,Chapter 26 PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS [1]



,Chapter 26A SANITARY NUISANCE [1]

Sec. 26A-1. Title; applicability.Sec. 26A-2. Sanitary nuisances generally.Sec. 26A-2.1. Mosquito control.Sec. 26A-3. Duties of Director, Public Health Department.Sec. 26A-4. Penalties for violation.Sec. 26A-5. Duty of police to report nuisances or unsanitary conditions.Sec. 26A-6. Chapter supplemental to State laws.Sec. 26A-7. Sale of tobacco products prohibited in hospitals.Sec. 26A-8. Smoking, holding of lighted tobacco products prohibited in elevators; display of signs.Sec. 26A-9. Smoking, holding of lighted tobacco products in certain mercantile stores; display of signs.Sec. 26A-10. Smoking, holding of lighted tobacco products prohibited on premises of food stores; display of signs; exceptions.Sec. 26A-1. Title; applicability. This chapter shall be known as the Sanitary Nuisance Chapter, and shall be applicable in all the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Dade County. (Ord. No. 65-19, § 1, 4-6-65) Sec. 26A-2. Sanitary nuisances generally.(a) Definition. A sanitary nuisance is the commission of any act, by an individual, municipality, organization or corporation, or the keeping, maintaining, propagation, existence or permission of anything, by an individual, municipality, organization or corporation, by which the health or life of an individual, or the health or life of individuals, may be threatened or impaired or by which or through which, directly or indirectly, disease may be caused. (b) Presumption of nuisance injurious to health. The following conditions existing, permitted, maintained, kept or caused by any individual, municipal organization or corporation, governmental or private, shall constitute prima facie evidence of maintaining a nuisance injurious to health: (1)Untreated or improperly treated human waste, garbage, offal, dead animals or dangerous waste materials from manufacturing processes harmful to human or animal life and air pollutants, gases and noisome odors which are harmful to human or animal life. (2)Improperly built or maintained septic tanks, water closets or privies.(3)The keeping of diseased animals dangerous to human health.(4)Unclean or filthy places where animals are slaughtered.(5)The creation, maintenance or causing of any condition capable of breeding flies, mosquitoes or other arthropods capable of transmitting diseases, directly or indirectly to humans. (6)Any other condition determined to be a sanitary nuisance as defined in this chapter. (Ord. No. 65-19, §§ 2, 3, 4-6-65) Sec. 26A-2.1. Mosquito control.(a) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings: (1) Artificially induced mosquito breeding area is any site at which five (5) or more immature mosquitoes are present in artificial containers, vegetative plants or wastewater facilities at any one (1) time. (2) Immature mosquito means a mosquito larva or pupa. (3) Artificial containers means any man-made containers, including, but not limited to, tires, swimming pools, cans, vases, buckets, boats, bird baths, jars, canals, ditches or flower cutting containers. (4) Vegetative plant means any growing plant. (5) Mosquito sampling dipper means a water dipper with a circular mouth, between four (4) and five (5) inches in diameter, and having a depth of not less than one and one-half (1½) inches. (6) Wastewater means effluent from a sewage treatment plant. (7) Process water means water that has been used in the production of a product. (8) Person means an individual, corporation, organization, partnership, municipality, or other legal entity. (9) Enforcement Officer means the Chief of the Dade County Mosquito Control Division, other designated representatives of the Dade County Mosquito Control Division, or Code Inspector as defined in Chapter 8CC-3 (10) Structure means a solid roofed and walled building constructed for permanent use. (11) Abate means to take measures to control mosquito breeding. (12) Responsible party means the owner of the property that is the site of the artificially induced mosquito breeding. (13) Tire means a continuous covering for the wheel of a vehicle usually made of rubber reinforced with cords of nylon, fiberglass or other material and filled with compressed air. (14) Canal means a long, wide hollow whose primary purpose is drainage or flood control. (15) Ditch means a long, narrow hollow used for the purpose of drainage or irrigation. (b) Prohibition of nuisance. It shall be a violation of this section for any person to allow the existence of, create, keep, or maintain an artificially induced mosquito breeding area. (c) Investigation and abatement procedures. The Dade County Mosquito Control Division of the Public Works Department is authorized and empowered to investigate and abate conditions capable of breeding mosquitoes throughout Dade County. (1)The Enforcement Officer of the Dade County Mosquito Control Division is hereby authorized to inspect, for mosquito breeding, any lot, tract, or parcel of land, improved or unimproved. Occupied or secured structures may be entered only by consent of the property owner, occupant, or at the direction of a court of competent jurisdiction. (2)The Enforcement Officer of the Dade County Mosquito Control Division, in order to abate an artificially induced mosquito breeding area, is authorized to apply pesticides, in accordance with label directions, on any lot, tract, or parcel of land, improved or unimproved. (3)Any person who obstructs, or resists the Enforcement Officer in the discharge of his duty as provided in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. (d) Enforcement procedures. (1)Whenever an Enforcement Officer determines that a site is an artificially induced mosquito breeding area, the Enforcement Officer is authorized to give, or cause to be given, to the responsible party notice, by personal service, posting or certified mail, to take corrective action to abate the mosquito breeding. (2)The responsible party shall take corrective action to abate the artificially induced mosquito breeding within five (5) days of receipt or posting of the notice listed in subsection (d)(1). (3)If the responsible party fails to take corrective action to abate the artificially induced mosquito breeding, said party shall be cited pursuant to Chapter 8CC of the Code. (I)The responsible party has seven (7) calendar days from receipt or posting of the citation to file for an appeal hearing before an 8CC Hearing Officer. (II)If the responsible party does not appeal the citation, said party shall pay the fine in accordance with Section 8CC-10 of the Code. Thereafter, each day the responsible party fails to take corrective action to abate the artificially induced mosquito breeding constitutes a continuing violation as defined in Section 8CC-4 of the Code. (III)The Dade County Mosquito Control Division shall take corrective action to abate the artificially induced mosquito breeding, at the responsible party's expense, five (5) calendar days from the date of the citation issuance. the responsible party shall pay the Dade County Mosquito Control Division for the cost of performing such abatement, which includes all expenses, fines, penalties, interest and actual administrative costs. The responsible party shall make payment to the Mosquito Control Division within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the payment invoice from the Mosquito Control Division. (IV)If the responsible party fails to pay Dade County Mosquito Control Division as described under Section 26A-2.1(d)(3)(III) and/or Section 26A-2.1(d)(5), the Department shall file a lien in the amount of all expenses incurred in correcting the condition, including all fines, penalties, interest and actual administrative costs. (V)Such liens shall be enforceable in the same manner as a tax lien and may be satisfied at any time by payment thereof, including accrued interest. Upon such payment, the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall, by appropriate means, evidence the satisfaction and cancellation of such lien upon the record thereof. Notice of such lien may be filed in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and recorded among the public records of Dade County, Florida. (4)The hearing provided for in Section 26A-2.1(d)(3)(I) shall be conducted not sooner than five (5) calendar days, but not later than twenty (20) calendar days, after receipt of the appeal. (5)If the responsible party is found guilty by the Hearing Officer, the responsible party shall pay a fine in accordance with Section 8CC-10 of the Code and will be required to pay the Dade County Mosquito Control Division the cost of abating the artificially induced mosquito breeding as performed and defined under Section 26A-2.1(d)(3)(III). (e) Tire storage. All persons who engage in the manufacture, distribution, sale or storage of new, used or waste tires, including, but not limited to, automobile, truck, tractor, trailer, motorcycle or airplane tires, shall store or treat all tires in a manner which will prevent an artificially induced mosquito breeding area. (f) Records. The County shall keep complete records relating to the amount payable for liens as described in Section 26A-2.1(d)(3)(IV). (g) Violation; penalty. If any person shall fail or refuse to obey or comply with, or violate any of the provisions of this section, or any lawful order of the Enforcement Officer, issued or rendered under [or] pursuant to the provisions of this section, such person shall be in violation of this section, and upon conviction of such offense, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days in the County Jail, or both, in the discretion of the court. (h) Provisions herein are supplemental. Any enforcement procedures outlined in this section shall be considered cumulative and supplemental to all other penalties or remedies which may be provided for elsewhere by this Code or by statute. (Ord. No. 80-95, § 1, 9-16-80; Ord. No. 86-82, § 1, 10-28-86; Ord. No. 95-85, § 1, 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-205, § 1, 11-9-95) Sec. 26A-3. Duties of Director, Public Health Department.(a)The Director of the Dade County Department of Public Health is authorized to investigate any condition or alleged nuisance in any place within the County, and if such condition is determined to constitute a sanitary nuisance, he shall serve notice upon the proper party or parties to remove, abate, or correct the said nuisance within twenty-four (24) hours or such other reasonable time as he may determine. (b)It shall be the duty of said Director to institute proceedings in the court of appropriate jurisdiction against all persons failing to comply with notices to remove, abate or correct said nuisance conditions. (c)In all investigations and prosecutions pertaining to water and air pollution, the Director of the Department of Public Health shall coordinate his duties under this chapter with those of the Pollution Control Director under Chapter 24 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County. (Ord. No. 65-19, § 3, 4-6-65) Cross reference— Powers, duties of the Public Health Department, § 2-77. Sec. 26A-4. Penalties for violation. Any person found guilty of creating, keeping or maintaining a nuisance injurious to health shall be punished by imprisonment in the County Jail not to exceed sixty (60) days or by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. No. 65-19, § 4, 4-6-65) Sec. 26A-5. Duty of police to report nuisances or unsanitary conditions. It shall be the duty of Police Officers to report to the Department of Public Health any nuisance or unsanitary condition which comes to their attention in the course of their official duties. (Ord. No. 65-19, § 5, 4-6-65) Sec. 26A-6. Chapter supplemental to State laws. The provisions of this chapter are not intended to and shall not be construed as changing, modifying, amending, repealing, superseding or conflicting with any provisions or sections of the Florida Statutes, but shall be construed as supplemental and additional thereto and not a substitute therefor. (Ord. No. 65-19, § 6, 4-6-65) Sec. 26A-7. Sale of tobacco products prohibited in hospitals. The sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products, including but not limited to cigars, cigarettes, pipe tobacco, and snuff, on the premises of licensed hospitals, sanitoria, convalescent homes, homes for the aged, and nursing homes and facilities as defined in Section 400.021, Florida Statutes, is found to be injurious to the public health, determined to be a sanitary nuisance, and is hereby prohibited. (Ord. No. 72-45, § 1, 9-6-72) Sec. 26A-8. Smoking, holding of lighted tobacco products prohibited in elevators; display of signs. The smoking or carrying of lighted cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, pipe tobacco and other tobacco products on all elevators available to and used by the general public is found to be injurious and dangerous to the public health, determined to be a sanitary nuisance and a fire hazard, and is hereby prohibited. The use of any spark, flame or fire producing device is similarly prohibited in all elevators in the County. A sign reading "Smoking Prohibited by Law" shall be permanently and conspicuously placed in each elevator available to and used by the general public by the owner or lessee of the building in which such elevator is located. (Ord. No. 73-14, § 1, 2-20-73; Ord. No. 73-41, § 1, 4-16-73; Ord. No. 73-59, § 1, 6-5-73) Sec. 26A-9. Smoking, holding of lighted tobacco products in certain mercantile stores; display of signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette, cigarillo or pipe, or use any spark, flame, match or fire producing device in any mercantile store in the County: (a)Designed or arranged to accommodate more than one hundred (100) persons, or(b)In which more than twenty-five (25) persons are employed, or(c)Which voluntarily elects, by and through the action of its management, to be included within this section. This prohibition shall apply to restrooms, restaurants, coffee shops, soda fountain counters, executive offices or beauty parlors in such mercantile stores. Every person, or his agent, having control of such store premises in which smoking or the carrying of lighted objects is prohibited by or under the authority of this ordinance, shall conspicuously display upon the premises a sign reading "Smoking Prohibited by Law." (Ord. No. 73-42, § 1, 4-16-73) Sec. 26A-10. Smoking, holding of lighted tobacco products prohibited on premises of food stores; display of signs; exceptions. The smoking, carrying or holding of lighted cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, pipe tobacco and other tobacco products in areas within mercantile stores wherein food products are available for purchase by consumers for off-premises consumption tends to create unhygienic conditions injurious to the public health and is hereby prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply to restrooms, restaurants, coffee shops and soda fountain counters within such mercantile stores. Every person or corporation, or agent of such person or corporation, having control of such store premises in which smoking, carrying or holding of lighted tobacco products is prohibited shall post conspicuously within such store signs reading "Smoking Prohibited By Law." A similar sign shall also be posted on each door affording public access into the premises. (Ord. No. 74-46, § 1, 6-18-74)

,Chapter 26B RESERVED [1]



,Chapter 26C RESERVED [1]



,Chapter 26D RESERVED [1]



,Chapter 27 SWIMMING POOLS, PUBLIC [1]

Sec. 27-1. Definitions.Sec. 27-2. Certificate of competency—Required.Sec. 27-3. Same—Procedure for obtaining.Sec. 27-4. Municipal powers not affected.Sec. 27-5. Violations, penalty.Sec. 27-6. Fees; exemption.Sec. 27-1. Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. (a)The term "Health Department" shall mean the Department of Public Health of the County.(b)The term "public swimming pool" means all swimming pools located indoors or outdoors, within the incorporated or unincorporated areas of the County, used for bathing or swimming purposes and filled with a controlled water supply, together with buildings and appurtenances used in connection therewith, except swimming pools used only by an individual, his family or house guests. (c)The term "short course" shall mean a short course of study in the care, maintenance and operation of public swimming pools and public bathing places as prescribed by the Health Department. (d)The term "temporary permit" shall mean and be limited to a temporary permit issued under this chapter. (Ord. No. 58-36, § 2, 9-9-58; Ord. No. 59-39, § 1, 10-6-59) Editor's note— Ord. No. 60-1, adopted January 5, 1960 declared Ord. No. 59-39 to be amendatory to this Code.Sec. 27-2. Certificate of competency—Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate and maintain a public swimming pool unless and until some person directly responsible for the maintenance and care of such public swimming pool shall first obtain a certificate of competency from the Health Department. (Ord. No. 58-36, § 3, 9-9-58) Sec. 27-3. Same—Procedure for obtaining.(a) Application. All applications for certificates of competency shall be made and filed with the Department of Public Health. The Department of Public Health shall prescribe the form of application and make such investigation concerning all applications filed as it shall deem necessary. (b) Issuance of certificate. A certificate of competency shall be issued by the Department of Public Health to all applicants of good moral character who shall first present to the Health Department satisfactory evidence of successful or satisfactory completion of a short course in the care, maintenance and operation of swimming pools and bathing places, and have the required amount of experience in public pool operation. (c) Short course given under supervision. The Health Department shall at least once each year give a short course in the care, maintenance and operation of public bathing places and pools. The Health Department may from time to time approve certain qualified groups or organizations to give the short courses and in that event, said short courses shall be under the sponsorship, direction and supervision of the Health Department. Successful or satisfactory completion of the short course with an approved organization or group sponsored and approved by the Health Department shall likewise entitle an applicant to a certificate of competency as set forth in subsection (b) of this section. (d) Time limit and revocation of certificate. A certificate of competency issued pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall be valid until revoked for cause by the Health Department, but violation of any applicable provisions of the Florida State Sanitary Code, Chapter XX, as amended, shall be deemed prima facie grounds for revocation of a certificate of competency. (e) Temporary permits. For one (1) year from the effective date of this chapter [2], the Health Department shall issue temporary permits in lieu of certificate of competency to all applicants of good moral character in order that such persons shall have sufficient time and opportunity to comply with this chapter and satisfactorily complete the short course. All temporary permits shall become null and void on the date herein specified or upon unsatisfactory completion of the short course, whichever shall occur first. Pool operators of newly completed pools may be issued a temporary certificate if necessary for a period not to exceed one (1) year in order that such person shall have sufficient opportunity to become certified. Upon ex-piration of the temporary certificate, the pool operator must become certified or the pool owner must obtain a certified operator. (f) Certification of some present pool operators. Any person who has heretofore completed a short course sponsored by the Florida Swimming Pool Operators Association, a nonprofit organization, and the Department of Public Health and presently holds a valid certificate of satisfactory completion therefrom, shall be certified as competent under this chapter. (g) Fees. A fee not exceeding ten dollars ($10.00) may be charged by the Health Department for processing applications and issuing certificates. (h) Exemption for experienced swimming pool operators. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, any person furnishing satisfactory proof to the Public Health Department that he has been engaged continuously in the occupation of public swimming pool operator in the County, for at least five (5) years immediately prior to the effective date of this chapter [3], shall not be required to attend or take any short course of instruction, and a certificate of competency shall be issued to such person, provided he possesses good moral character, and provided he satisfactorily passes a special examination given by the Public Health Department covering the practical aspects of public swimming pool care, maintenance and operation. (Ord. No. 58-36, § 4, 9-9-58; Ord. No. 59-6, § 1, 3-31-59) Sec. 27-4. Municipal powers not affected. Nothing herein shall affect any municipal regulations regarding lifeguard requirements. (Ord. No. 58-36, § 5, 9-9-58) Sec. 27-5. Violations, penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) or may be punished by imprisonment not exceeding ten (10) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation is committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. No. 58-36, § 6, 9-9-58) Sec. 27-6. Fees; exemption.(a) Authorized; amounts. In addition to and not limited by the fees set out in Section 27-3(g) of this chapter, the Dade County Department of Public Health is hereby authorized and directed to collect the following annual fees for permitting of swimming pools under the provisions of Chapter 514, Florida Statutes, and Chapter 10D-5, Florida Administrative Code: (1)Pools up to 20,000 gallons, per annum .....$ 50.00 (2)Pools in excess of 20,000 gallons and up to 50,000 gallons, per annum .....75.00 (3)Pools in excess of 50,000 gallons, per annum .....100.00 (4)Swimming pools having, in addition to the principal structure set forth above, a wading or therapeutic pool that is part of the bathing area shall be assessed an additional annual permit fee of .....10.00 All permit applicants for swimming pools permitted under Chapter 514, Florida Statutes, and under the provisions of this section, shall be required to pay the above-noted permit fees upon original application for a permit or upon expiration of their existing permit and prior to the issuance of any new permit. (b) Exemption of governmentally owned and operated swimming pools. Governmentally owned and operated swimming pools are hereby exempt from the payment of the fees as established in this section, provided that the appropriate supervisor of each swimming pool shall furnish and deliver to the Miami Branch Laboratory, Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, on or before the tenth day of each and every month, a bacteriological water sample in a container approved by the Department of Health, and that said pools shall be subject to not less than one (1) inspection per year by the Dade County Department of Public Health. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the imposition of a fee as provided herein. (Ord. No. 76-73, § 1, 7-20-76; Ord. No. 77-85, § 1, 12-6-77) Annotation—CAO 76-47.

,Chapter 28 SUBDIVISIONS [1]

Sec. 28-1. Definitions.Sec. 28-2. Purpose of chapter.Sec. 28-3. Application of chapter.Sec. 28-4. Plats and platting—Recording; exceptions.Sec. 28-4.1. Same—Procedure for waiver of plat.Sec. 28-4.2. Same—Administrative prohibition of action on or approval of tentative plats and waivers of plats in unincorporated Miami-Dade County and vested rights procedure.Sec. 28-5. Same—Approval before recording.Sec. 28-6. Same—Revising plat after approval.Sec. 28-7. Same—Procedure for platting.Sec. 28-8. Same—Final plat.Sec. 28-9. Same—Final approval; rejection, for plats within the unincorporated areas of the County.Sec. 28-9.1. Same—Fees for plats within the unincorporated areas of the County.Sec. 28-10. Reserved.Sec. 28-11. Building permits, issuance.Sec. 28-12. Public improvements and maintenance, withholding from subdivisions not approved or accepted.Sec. 28-13. Drainage.Sec. 28-14. Design standards.Sec. 28-15. Required improvements.Sec. 28-16. Construction plan.Sec. 28-17. Subdivision of portion of tract.Sec. 28-18. Encroachment on or in streets.Sec. 28-19. Variances.Sec. 28-20. Municipal regulations; effect.Sec. 28-1. Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular, and words in the singular number include the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. (a)"Final plat" is the final tracing, map or drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented to the governing body for approval, and which, if approved, will be submitted to the Clerk of the Circuit Court for recording. (b)"Flood criteria" is the minimum finished elevation required for all lands as established and shown on the flood criteria map recorded in Plat Book 53, pages 68, 69, and 70 of the public records of this County as the same may be modified from time to time. (c)"Lot" is a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land, however designated, intended as a single building site or unit for transfer of ownership or for development. (d)"The manual of public works construction of the Department of Public Works" is the comprehensive set of specifications prepared by the County's Department of Public Works covering the minimum requirements for the design and construction of engineering works such as, but not limited to: Streets, roads and highways, sidewalks, filling and grading, excavating, harbors and docks, drainage installation and structures, water control work and water supply, paving installations, curbs and gutters, bridges and overpasses and underpasses, underground sewage collections and disposal systems, underground utility line construction, levees, pumping stations and similar works. (e)"Master plan" is the comprehensive plan prepared by the County's Department of Planning and Zoning which indicates the general locations recommended for the various functional classes of public works, places and structures and for the general physical development of the County and includes any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof. (f)"Official map" is the map established by the County showing the streets, highways and parks laid out, adopted and established by the County or additions thereto resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by the governing bodies and the subsequent filing of such approved plats. (g)Streets, alleys, easements and rights-of-way.(1)"Alley" is a minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a street. (2)"Arterial street" is a heavily traveled street of considerable continuity used primarily as a main traffic artery.(3)"Collector street" is a street which carries traffic from minor streets to arterial streets, including the principal entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation within such development. (4)"Cul-de-sac" or "dead-end street" is a minor street with only one (1) outlet terminating at one (1) end with a turnaround.(5)"Easement" or "servitude" is a strip reserved by the subdivider for public utilities, drainage and other public purposes, the title to which shall remain in the property owner, subject to the right of use designated in the reservation of the servitude. (6)"Limited access highway" or "freeway" is a highway which permits no access except at authorized and controlled points, the acquisition of rights-of-way for such highway usually including the acquisition of access rights thereto. Access may also be limited through methods other than acquisition of access right. (7)"Marginal access street" is a minor street which is parallel and adjacent to arterial streets and which provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic. (8)"Minor street" is a street used primarily for access to the abutting properties.(9)"Parkway" is a route intended to be used primarily by passenger vehicles which may have a varying width of right-of-way and which right-of-way is or is intended to be developed with a park-like character. (10)"Width of street" is the shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-of-way of a street.(11)"Right-of-way" is a strip of ground dedicated by the subdivider, deeded by the owner, for public use.(12)"Mapped street" is any approved street shown on an official map, or the projection of an existing street through an unsubdivided parcel of land, whether the street is dedicated, or in existence or not. For the purpose of this definition all normal five-acre fractional lines shall be deemed the center line of mapped street, unless waived by the plat division of the appropriate authority. (13)"Limited access line" is a designated line across which there shall be no vehicular access.(h)"Subdivider" is any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another. (i)"Subdivision" is:(1)The division of land for any use so as to create one (1) or more lots, sites, tracts or parcels otherwise designated of any size for the purpose of transfer of ownership, leasing, or building development. The division of land, zoned for single-family residential use, shall not be deemed a subdivision if the land is being divided into parcels, each of which is more than one and one-quarter (1¼) acres in size exclusive of any official right-of-way. The division of land, zoned for agricultural, general or interim use or which is unzoned, shall not be deemed a subdivision if the land is being divided into parcels each of which is five (5) acres or more in size, including any official right-of-way. Separate parcels created pursuant to Section 33-257(2) or pursuant to Section 33-31 of the Code shall not be deemed a subdivision of real property. (2)The dedication of a road, highway, street, alley, easement through or on a tract of land regardless of area.(3)The resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots, sites or parcels.(j)"Tentative plat" is a preliminary map, drawing or chart indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision submitted for approval. Said preliminary map, drawing or chart shall not be considered a boundary survey as defined in Chapter 21HH-6 of the Florida Administrative Code, as same may be amended from time to time. It shall be considered a specific purpose survey as defined in said Chapter 21HH-6; said specific purpose being for subdivision design, therefore conceptual in nature, and subject to change prior to the boundary survey being made for which a plat of record is being filed. (k)"Decorative masonry wall" is a wall of masonry composition, at least five (5) feet in height, with a struck natural, painted, stuccoed, or painted struck block finish on both sides with a continuous concrete cap. For the purpose of this definition, a combination of fence and landscaping that creates a satisfactory buffer shall be considered acceptable substitutes for a decorative masonry wall. (l)"Plat division of the appropriate authority" is the competent staff, including a professional land surveyor, of the governing body created to review plats or an independent land surveying firm under contract by the governing body to review plats. By definition, the independent land surveying firm shall not be the same as the land surveyor recording the plat, so as to prevent any conflict of interest. Municipalities without a plat division may request the County's plat division to review both tentative and final plats, in which case the subdivider shall pay the same fees to the County as a subdivider within the unincorporated areas of the County would pay. (m)"County's plat division" by definition shall be a committee consisting of one (1) member from each of the following Miami-Dade County Departments: Public Works; Planning and Zoning; Environmental Resources Management; Parks and Recreation; and the Miami-Dade Water and Sewer Department. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 78-12, § 1, 3-21-78; Ord. No. 80-120, § 2, 10-21-80; Ord. No. 81-63, § 2, 6-2-81; Ord. No. 82-71, § 1, 7-20-82; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98) Sec. 28-2. Purpose of chapter. The public health, safety, comfort, and welfare requires the harmonious, orderly, and progressive development of land within the County. In furtherance of this purpose, this chapter regulates the subdivision of land in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County. It is the further intent of this chapter to secure: (a)The establishment of standards of subdivision design which will encourage the development of sound and economically stable communities, and the creation of healthy living environments. (b)The efficient adequate and economic supply of utilities and services to land developments.(c)The prevention of traffic hazards and the provisions of safe and convenient vehicular and pedestrian traffic circulation in land developments. (d)The provision of public open spaces in land developments for recreational and educational purposes. This chapter is intended to aid in the coordination of land development in the community in accordance with orderly physical patterns and to implement the master plan, or parts, thereof, and such zoning regulations and other measures in furtherance of such master plan as may have been or may hereafter be adopted. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77) Sec. 28-3. Application of chapter.(a)This chapter shall apply to and be enforced in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County.(b)No person, firm, corporation or any other association, shall create a subdivision of a tract of land anywhere in the County except in conformity with this chapter. (c)No tentative or final plat containing any restriction of any nature based on race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation or gender shall be submitted by a subdivider or presented to the plat division of the appropriate authority or the governing body for approval. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 05-87, § 1, 5-3-05) Sec. 28-4. Plats and platting—Recording; exceptions. Whenever land is subdivided a plat must be recorded, except that the recording of a plat will not be required if: (1)The subdivision involved consists only of the dedication of a road, highway, street, alley or easement and due to unusual conditions and circumstances the plat division of the appropriate authority finds that it is not necessary that a plat be recorded. In lieu of the recording of a plat, the dedication may be required by deed, and may be subject to compliance with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate under the particular circumstances, such as improvements of sidewalks, streets, or drainage facilities and the acceptance of the dedication by the governing body. Posting of bond may be required. (2)The land to be subdivided is to be divided into no more than six (6) parcels and because of (a) unusual conditions created by ownership or development of adjacent lands, or (b) the isolation or remoteness of the land concerned in relation to other platted or improved lands, or (c) improvements and dedications existing on the land substantially in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, it is determined by the plat division of the appropriate authority that waiving of the requirement for platting would not conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter. In lieu of platting the plat division of the appropriate authority may require any dedications, reservations, or improvements required in connection with platting under this chapter, including the posting of a performance and maintenance bond, as may be necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter. (3)The resubdivision of land heretofore platted is of such unusual size or shape, or is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions as may be determined by the plat division of the appropriate authority to justify the waiving of the requirement for recording a plat. In lieu of the recording of a plat, such conditions may be imposed as may be deemed necessary and appropriate to preserve the public interest. (4)A parcel of land conveyed by a recorded warranty deed that is dated prior to January 1, 1958, the effective date of this code; provided, however, that the parcel may be diminished in size as a result of a public dedication of any portion of that parcel. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 81-6, § 1, 1-20-81; Ord. No. 03-94, § 1, 4-22-03) Sec. 28-4.1. Same—Procedure for waiver of plat.(a)To determine if the waiving of the requirement for platting would not conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter, and the exceptions contained in Section 28-4 are applicable, a waiver of plat survey shall be submitted by the property owner. (b)A waiver of plat application shall be submitted, signed by the owner and notarized on the form prescribed by the plat division of the appropriate authority. (c)The waiver of plat survey shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered in the State of Florida and shall bear the embossed seal of the land surveyor. (d)The waiver of plat survey shall include the following items, unless waived by the plat division of the appropriate authority:(1)Legal description of the parent tract.(2)Legal description of each parcel to be created.(3)Location of property lines, existing easements, buildings, watercourses and other essential features.(4)The location of any existing sewers and water mains, or any underground or overhead utilities, culverts and drains on the property to be subdivided. (5)Location, names and present widths of existing and proposed streets, highways, easements, building lines, alleys, parks and other open public spaces and similar facts regarding property immediately adjacent. (6)Date of field survey, north point and graphic scale.(7)The width and location of all streets or other public ways proposed by the developer.(8)The proposed lot lines with dimensions.(9)Existing ground elevations of the property and extending not less than twenty-five (25) feet beyond the boundaries of property.(10)Existing easements or restrictions shown on underlying plat shall be shown.(11)The location of all buildings, swimming pools, slabs, fences and other permanent structures on the adjacent properties that would be nonconforming with the creation of this division of land. (e)The property owner shall pay such fees as may be prescribed for checking the waiver of plat and investigating such matters concerning it as may be required. (f)The property owner shall submit a current opinion of title from any attorney authorized to practice law in this State with the submittal of the waiver of plat application. (g)Prior to the approval of the waiver of plat the property owner shall submit appropriate documentation showing the consent of any mortgage holders to the adoption of the waiver of plat. (h)Certification from the County that all taxes and assessments have been paid on the land within the proposed waiver of plat or receipted tax bills prior to the approval of the waiver of plat. (i)The property owner shall pay clerk's fees for the recordation of the governing body's resolution that approved the waiver of plat. (j)The property owner shall comply with all the County's Plat Committee requirements within 60 days of the recommendation for approval by the County's Plat Committee. If the property owner fails to comply with said requirements within the time prescribed, the Chief of Public Works and Waste Management's Land Development Division, or designee, shall notify the property owner that the recommendation for approval of the waiver of plat is rescinded. (Ord. No. 79-18, § 1, 3-6-79; Ord. No. 82-71, § 2, 7-20-82; Ord. No. 12-41, § 1, 6-5-12) Sec. 28-4.2. Same—Administrative prohibition of action on or approval of tentative plats and waivers of plats in unincorporated Miami-Dade County and vested rights procedure.(a) Administrative prohibition of action on or approval of tentative plats and waiver of plats. (1)Whenever any zoning hearing for a district boundary change within the unincorporated area is initiated by the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning, the County Manager may order that no tentative plat or waiver of plat, pertaining to any or all property involved in the application shall be acted upon or approved until the hearing upon said application has been finally concluded in accordance with the provisions of this Code. No such order shall issue unless the County Manager first determines that the processing and approval of tentative plats and waiver of plats would create a risk of land use contrary to the zoning which is most appropriate for the area. Said order shall not prevent processing and approval of a tentative plat or waiver of plat which would be permissible if the Director's application were granted. (2)Should the County Manager issue an order pursuant to this section, administrative personnel shall schedule the zoning application for the first public hearing date after appropriate legal notice. The Manager's order shall expire upon final action upon the zoning application. If the application for zoning change is not decided at the hearing for which it is first scheduled, the Board of County Commissioners shall at said time decide whether the Manager's order shall remain in effect and the Board shall review the continued effectiveness of the order at any subsequent hearing to which the application is deferred and not decided. (b) Vested rights. (1)Any property owner claiming a vested right to obtain action upon or approval of a tentative plat or waiver of plat contrary to this section may submit an application for a determination of vested rights to the Miami-Dade County Plat Division. The application shall have attached an affidavit setting forth the facts upon which the applicant bases his claim for vested rights. The applicant shall also attach copies of any contracts, letters and other documents upon which a claim of vested rights is based. The mere existence of zoning shall not vest rights. (2)The Miami-Dade County Plat Division shall review the application and determine whether the applicant has demonstrated:a.An act of development approval by an agency of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County,b.Upon which the applicant has in good faith relied to his detriment,c.Such that it would be highly inequitable to deny the landowner the right to obtain action on or approval of a tentative plat.(3)Any appeal of the Miami-Dade County Plat Division's determination shall be made following the procedures outlined in Section 28-7(f) Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (4)The provisions of this subsection (b) shall not prohibit the Board of County Commissioners from considering the issue of vested rights during other hearings where such rights are in issue, provided that a decision upon a claim of such rights shall be a final determination thereof and further administrative hearings thereon shall be neither required nor permitted. (Ord. No. 84-94, § 1, 12-4-84; Ord. No. 91-121, § 1, 9-16-91; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 1, 9-3-98) Sec. 28-5. Same—Approval before recording. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court until it shall have been approved in the manner prescribed herein. In the event any such unapproved plat is recorded it shall be stricken from the record upon application of the governing body of the municipality in which the plat lies; or the governing body of the County for any nonconforming plat in the incorporated area or in the unincorporated area of the County. (Ord. No. 77-1, § 1, 2-1-77) Sec. 28-6. Same—Revising plat after approval.(a)Any changes, erasures, modifications or revisions to an approved plat prior to recordation may only be made by the Plat Division to correct scriveners errors, reflect accurate legal descriptions and locate right-of-way dedications, drainage ways and easements. (b)No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions to an approved plat prior to recordation shall be made unless resubmitted for new approval provided, however, that the governing body may, after public hearing and based only upon a recommendation of its Plat Division, change, modify or revise dedicated road rights-of-way or drainage easements. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 03-94, § 1, 4-22-03) Sec. 28-7. Same—Procedure for platting.(A) Preliminary conference. The subdivider or his engineer, or land surveyor, prior to the preparation of the tentative plat, may informally seek the advice of the plat division of the appropriate authority in order that he may become familiar with the subdivision requirements and with the provisions of the master plan affecting the territory in which the proposed subdivision is located. (B) Tentative plat. The tentative plat shall show on a map all of the facts and data required by the various departments to determine whether the proposed layout of the land in the subdivision is satisfactory from the standpoint of public interest. (1)The following information shall be part of the tentative plat unless waived by the plat division of the appropriate authority.(a)Proposed subdivision name and identifying title and the name of the city, if any, in which the subdivision is located, and the section, township and range. (b)Location of property lines, existing easements, buildings, watercourses, elevations, permits and other essential features.(c)The names of all subdivisions immediately adjacent.(d)The location of any existing sewers and water mains, or any underground or overhead utilities, culverts and drains on the property to be subdivided. (e)Location, names and present widths of existing and proposed streets, highways, alleys, parks and other open public spaces and similar facts regarding property immediately adjacent. (f)The width and location of any street or other public ways or places shown upon the official map or the master plan, within the area to be subdivided, and the width and locations of all streets or other public ways proposed by the developer. (g)Date of field survey, north point and graphic scale.(h)Legal description and plan of proposed layout made and certified by a Florida-licensed land surveyor.(i)The proposed lot lines with approximate dimensions and in the case of odd or irregularly shaped lots, suggested location of building setback lines. (j)Where the tentative plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's entire holding, a master tentative plat of the prospective future street system of the unsubdivided part will be required, and the street system of the unsubmitted part will be considered in the light of adjustments and connection with the street system of the plat submitted. (k)A plat application signed by the owner and notarized on the form prescribed by the plat division of the appropriate authority.(l)The numbering of all lots, blocks and the lettering of all tracts shall be shown on the tentative plat. All lots or tracts shall be numbered or lettered progressively. All blocks shall be progressively numbered except that blocks in numbered additions bearing the same name shall be numbered consecutively throughout the several additions. (m)A location map at the scale of one (1) inch equals three hundred (300) feet showing existing and proposed rights-of-way.(2)The following information shall be submitted in addition to the tentative plat if requested by the plat division of the appropriate authority. (a)The names of owners of record of immediately adjacent property.(b)Any changes in the use, height, area and density districts or other regulations under Chapter 33, Zoning, applicable to the area to be subdivided, and any boundaries of such districts, affecting the tracts; all parcels of land proposed to be dedicated to public use and the conditions of such dedications. (c)Typical cross-section of the proposed grading and roadways or sidewalks and topographic conditions.(d)Location of closest available subdivision or public water supply system.(e)Location of closest available subdivision or public sewage disposal system.(f)Provisions for collecting and discharging surface drainage.(g)Preliminary designs of any bridges or culverts which may be required.(h)A boundary survey.(i)If required by these regulations or if proposed by the subdivider, the proposed location of any type of sidewalks, street lighting standards and species of street trees, the location of curbs, gutters, water mains, sanitary sewers and storm drains and the sizes and types thereof, the character, width and depth of pavement and sub-base, and the location of manholes and basins and underground conduits. (j)The boundaries of proposed permanent utility easements over or under private property. Such easements shall provide satisfactory access to an existing public highway or other public open space shown upon the layout. Permanent drainage easements shall also be shown. (k)All dimensions affecting public rights-of-way and proposed dedication of the public rights-of-way shall be established by a registered surveyor and shown on the grading and drainage plan accompanying approved and valid tentative plats when said plan is submitted for approval, with the same degree of accuracy as, and identical to, the corresponding dimensions shown on the final plat. (l)A copy of owners' deed or a current opinion of title from any attorney authorized to practice law in the State.(C) Filing copies of tentative plat and plat application. The subdivider shall file such copies as may be required of the tentative plat with the plat division of the appropriate authority, together with the plat application. All tentative plats filed shall be reviewed for approval weekly, or at the regular meeting of the plat division, and the tentative plats should be filed at least ten (10) days in advance of the meeting at which approval is sought. (D) Checking and investigating. The subdivider shall pay such fees as may be prescribed by ordinance for checking the tentative plat and investigating such matters concerning it as may be required by law and this chapter. (E) Approval of tentative plat. On plats that lie within the unincorporated areas of the County, copies of the tentative plat shall be distributed by the Department of Public Works to the Department of Planning and Zoning and the Department of Florida Health and to such other departments as may be necessary. Tentative approval shall confer upon the subdivider the right for a nine months period from the date of approval that the terms and conditions under which the tentative approval was granted will not be changed if the final plat is in accordance with the tentative approval. (F) Appeal of the County's plat division decision. Decisions of the County's plat division may be appealed within 14 (fourteen) days to the Executive Council of the Developmental Impact Committee as defined in Section 33-303.1(B) of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida; and appeals of the Executive Council's decision shall be by application for variance from Chapter 28 (Section 28-19) or, if applicable, by appeal of administrative decision pursuant to Section 33-314(C)(1) Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The fourteen-day appeal period provided herein shall commence on the day after notification that the plat division has taken action on the particular matter, such notification to be given by the division through the posting of a short, concise statement of the action taken on a conspicuous bulletin board that may be seen by the public at reasonable times and hours in the office of the Public Works Department. Where the fourteenth day falls on a weekend or legal holiday the appeal period shall be deemed to extend through the next business day. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 78-12, § 2, 3-21-78; Ord. No. 82-71, § 3, 7-20-82; Ord. No. 89-10, § 8, 2-21-89; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-123, § 2, 9-21-99; Ord. No. 99-147, § 1, 10-19-99; Ord. No. 02-259, § 1, 12-3-02) Annotation—AO 4-47 Sec. 28-8. Same—Final plat.(a) Conformity to tentative plat. The final plat shall have incorporated all changes or modifications as required to make the tentative plat conform to the requirements of this chapter. Otherwise it shall conform to the tentative plat, and it may constitute only that portion of the approved tentative plat which the subdivider proposed to record and develop at the time, provided that such portion conforms with all requirements of this chapter and meets with the approval of the various departments concerned. (b) Preparation. The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered in the state. The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn, to a sheet size of thirty (30) inches by thirty-six (36) inches and to a scale of sufficient size to be legible, with letters and numbers to be no smaller than one-eighth (1/8) of an inch in height. The final plat, insofar as preparation is concerned, shall comply with all applicable regulations and State laws dealing with the preparation of plats. (c) Contents. (1)Name of the subdivision. The plat shall have a title or name. If the plat be a town, city or village, the full name of such town, city or village must appear as the title or name of the plat subdivision. If the land platted be an addition to or a subdivision of a town, city or village already platted, then the title of the plat shall include, with the name of such addition or subdivision, the name of the town, city or village, as the case may be, and section, township and range of which such platted land is a subdivision, or to which it is an addition. The terms "Town," "City," "Village" or any other term suggesting a municipal corporation, shall not appear in the title or name of any plat which includes any property in the unincorporated area. The plat division of the appropriate authority shall disapprove any name or title which he may find to be sufficiently similar to the name of any existing town, city, village or municipal corporation, or the name similar to any previously approved plat in the incorporated or unincorporated areas of the County which may cause confusion as to the status or the location of any platted property. (2)Deed description. Description written on map or plat. There shall be written or printed upon the plat a full and detailed description of the land embraced in the map or plat showing the township and range in which such lands are situated and the section and part of sections platted and a location sketch showing the plat's location in reference to the closest centers of each section embraced within the plat. The description must be so complete that from it, without reference to the plat, the starting point can be determined and the outlines run. If a subdivision of a part of a previously recorded plat is made, the previous lots and blocks to be resubdivided shall be given. If the plat be a resubdivision of the whole of a previously recorded plat, the fact shall be so stated. Vacation of previously platted lands must be accomplished in the manner provided by law. (3)Names of adjacent subdivisions.(4)Names or numbers and width of streets immediately adjoining plat.(5)All plat boundaries.(6)Bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines, section corners or other recognized permanent monuments which shall be accurately described on the plat. (7)Municipal, township, County or section lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and bearing.(8)Accurate location of all monuments.(9)Length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of curvature and tangent bearings.(10)Where lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at angles less than eighty-seven (87) degrees or more than ninety-three (93) degrees, the width of the lot at the front building setback line shall be shown. (11)The name or numbering and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way shown on plat.(12)The numbering of all lots and blocks shown on the plat. All lots shall be numbered either by progressive numbers, or in blocks progressively numbered, except that blocks in numbered additions bearing the same name shall be numbered consecutively throughout the several additions. Excepted parcels must be marked "not part of this plat." (13)Plat restrictions to restrict type and use of water supply; type and use of sanitary facilities; use and benefits of water areas and other open spaces and odd-shaped and substandard parcels; resubdivision of parcels as "platted," and restrictions of similar nature. (14)All areas reserved or dedicated for public purposes. No strip or parcel of land shall be reserved by the owner, unless the same is sufficient in size and area to be of some practical use or service. (15)The dimensions of all lots and angles or bearings.(16)Minimum building setback lines where required by ordinance.(17)Location, dimension and purpose of any easements.(18)Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him, and that all monuments shown thereon actually exist, and that their location is correctly shown. (19)An acknowledgment by the owner of his adoption of the plat, and of the dedication of streets and other public areas and the consent of any mortgage holders to such adoption and dedication. If existing right-of-way is to be closed, purpose of closing must be stated on the plat. (20)The signature and seal of the governing body. On plats within the unincorporated areas of the County, the signature of the Director of Public Works, the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning and the Clerk and Mayor and, in his absence, the Chairman of the County Commission. Provided, however, that where property is being replatted the signatures of the governing body shall be affixed or denied pursuant to the procedures established in Section 177.101, Florida Statutes (1971), unless the vacation of prior plats has previously been validly accomplished. (d) Other data required with plat. (1)Restrictive covenants desired by the developer so long as they do not violate existing ordinances. Restrictive covenants shall be required covering the same restrictions included in subsection (c)(13) of this section; restrictions controlling building lines, establishment and maintenance of buffer strips and walls, and restrictions of similar nature. (2)The surveyor shall show on the face of the plat (or shall certify on a separate sheet, not to be recorded in the public records) the Florida State Plane Coordinates (current readjustment) of at least two (2) of the permanent reference monuments shown on the plat. This requirement may be waived by the plat division of the appropriate authority if (A) any portion of the land encompassed by the plat is more than one (1) mile from the nearest station shown on the list on file in the Miami-Dade County Public Works Department's Survey Office, as updated; or (B) all stations within one (1) mile of the plat have been lost. A copy of the certified corner record (as defined in Section 177.503 Florida Statutes (1993)), for the corners used shall be provided with the final plat. (3)Current opinion of title from any attorney authorized to practice law in this State.(4)Certification from the city and County that all taxes and assessments have been paid on the land within the proposed subdivision or receipted tax bills. (5)If a zoning change is involved, certification from the appropriate agency shall be furnished indicating that the change requested has been approved and is in effect, and that the size of lots and other features shown on the plat conform to all zoning requirements. Signing of the final plat by the director of that agency shall constitute such certification. (6)Clerk's fees for recording the plat.(7)On plats within municipalities certification from the appropriate agency shall be submitted to the County's plat division certifying that all required improvements within the public right-of-way have been completed or that the municipality is holding sufficient bond for the completion of the improvements. The certification shall also state that the plat appears to conform to all of the requirements of this chapter. The County's plat division shall review certification from the appropriate agency within forty-five (45) days of the acknowledged receipt of the plats. Failure of the County to act on said plats within forty-five (45) days of the acknowledged receipt of the plat shall be deemed an approval of the plat. (8)No plat shall be entitled for recording in the Clerk's office until the plat is signed by the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Public Works, certifying that the plat appears to conform to all of the requirements of this chapter. A certification of the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Public Works need not appear if the plat division of the appropriate authority submits an affidavit to the Clerk stating that the County has not acted on said plat within forty-five (45) days of the acknowledged receipt of the subject plat. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 94-51, § 1, 3-17-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-123, § 2, 9-21-99) Annotation—CAO 77-22.Sec. 28-9. Same—Final approval; rejection, for plats within the unincorporated areas of the County. Approval of plats by the Director of the Department of Public Works shall be final, insofar as that Department is concerned. Approvals shall not be denied if the plat complies with this chapter. After approval has been given as provided in this chapter, the Director of the Department of Public Works shall inform the subdivider, or his surveyor, as the case may be, that the plat has been given final approval and is ready for recording. In the event the plat has been rejected, the Director of the Department of Public Works will so notify the subdivider or his surveyor in writing with all reasons for such rejection. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-123, § 2, 9-21-99) Sec. 28-9.1. Same—Fees for plats within the unincorporated areas of the County. The Miami-Dade County Department of Public Works shall charge and collect fees for subdivision platting at the rates established by administrative order, which shall not become effective until approved by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 79-1, § 1, 1-9-79; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-123, § 2, 9-21-99) Annotation—AO 4-47 Sec. 28-10. Reserved.Editor's note— Ord. No. 94-51, § 2, adopted March 17, 1994, repealed former § 28-10, relative to bonds, which derived from Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, adopted Feb. 1, 1977. Sec. 28-11. Building permits, issuance. No building permit shall be issued for construction of any improvements on a parcel that was not legally created in compliance with these regulations except permits for a construction trailer or sale office trailer, permanent buildings to be used as single family home and townhouse models, entrance features, perimeter walls, lift stations and multi-family residential, commercial and industrial buildings, may be issued if the developer complies with the following requirements. (a)For construction trailer or trailer used as sales office: No permits will be approved until at least a tentative plat has been approved and the Public Works Department has reviewed and permitted paving and drainage plans. In addition, no permit shall be issued unless the trailer complies with the Department of Environmental Resources Management's requirements for providing potable water and sanitary facilities. (b)For permanent buildings to be used as single family or townhouse models: Permits for models not to exceed 25 percent of the total number of lots will be approved when: (1)The tentative plat has been approved by the Plat Committee and is current.(2)Paving and drainage plans have been approved.(3)All the Department of Environmental Resources Management's requirements, including the approval of Water and Sewer extension plans are complied with. (4)A letter signed by the property owner has been submitted to the Supervisor, Platting Section, requesting the construction of models prior to final plat recording. The letter shall include the number of models being requested (only one (1) of each single family model will be allowed, or only one (1) of each model townhouse building) together with the lot and block numbers for each such model. The letter shall state that the owner understands and agrees that the model home, or homes, shall not be occupied until the plat is recorded in the public records and that the penalty for violation of this occupancy prohibition shall be the demolition of the model. The letter shall also state that the owner agrees and shall release and hold Miami-Dade County, its employees and agents, harmless from any and all liability and causes of action of whatsoever nature and kind for and as a result of the issuance of building permits and any construction prior to final plat approval and recordation. The Supervisor, should he/she approve the models, will send a copy of the owner's letter to the Zoning Processing Section to be placed in the plat file. (5)No certificate of completion shall be issued for any model until after the final plat is recorded except that a Temporary Certificate of Completion may be issued by the Planning and Zoning Department. (c)Entrance features, perimeter wall and lift station permits may be issued after tentative plat approval by the Plat Committee and receipt of a letter to the Supervisor, Platting Section, signed by the property owner requesting the permit prior to final plat recording and releasing and holding Miami-Dade County, its employees and agents, harmless from any and all liability and causes of action of whatsoever nature or kind for and as a result of the issuance of building permits and any construction prior to final plat approval and recordation. The Supervisor should he/she approve the request, will send a copy of the owner's letter to the Zoning Processing Section to be placed in the plat file. (d)For multi-family residential, commercial, and industrial buildings; tentative plat.(1)The tentative plat has been approved by the Plat Committee and is current.(2)Building permits may be issued, on only one site, lot or tract, until the proposed final plat for the subdivision in which the structure, or structures, is to be located has been listed on an agenda for approval by the Board of County Commissioners. (3)Paving and drainage plans (if required) shall have been approved by the Public Works Department.(4)A letter, signed by the property owner, has been submitted to the Supervisor, Platting Section, requesting the permit prior to final plat recording. The letter shall state the proposed lot and block or tract for such permit, and the owner's acknowledgment and agreement that no certificate of occupancy or use will be sought or issued for the structure, or structures, until after the final plat is recorded. The letter shall also state that the owner agrees and shall release and hold Miami-Dade County, its employees and agents, harmless from any and all liability and causes of action of whatsoever nature or kind for and as a result of the issuance of building permits and any construction prior to final plat approval and recordation. The Supervisor, should he/she approve the request, will send a copy of the owner's letter to the Zoning Processing Section to be placed in the plat file. (5)No certificate of occupancy or use for the subject structure, or structures, will be issued until the plat is recorded.(6)The issuance of the building permit shall not modify or affect the concurrency capacity of the underlying tentative plat in any way. (e)For multi-family residential commercial, and industrial buildings; waiver of plat.(1)The waiver of plat has been recommended for approval by the Plat Committee.(2)Building permits may be issued, on only one parcel, until the proposed waiver of plat for the subdivision in which the structure, or structures, is to be located has been listed on an agenda for approval by the Board of County Commissioners. (3)Paving and drainage plans and a bond in lieu of the immediate construction of any improvements (if required) shall have been approved by the Public Works and Waste Management Department. (4)A letter, signed by the property owner, has been submitted to the Supervisor, Platting Section, requesting the permit, or permits, prior to the waiver of plat approval by the Board of County Commissioners. The letter shall state the proposed parcel for such permit, or permits, and the owner's acknowledgment and agreement that no certificate of occupancy or use will be sought or issued until after the waiver of plat is approved by the Board of County Commissioners and the resolution is recorded in the public records. The letter shall also state that the owner agrees and shall release and hold Miami-Dade County, its employees and agents, harmless from any and all liability and causes of action of whatsoever nature or kind for and as a result of the issuance of building permits and any construction prior to waiver of plat approval. Should the Supervisor approve the request, a copy of the owner's letter to the Zoning Processing Section shall be placed in the plat file. (5)No certificate of occupancy or use for the subject structure, or structures, will be issued until the waiver of plat is approved by the Board of County Commissioners and the resolution is recorded in the public records. (6)The issuance of the building permit, or permits, shall not modify or affect the concurrency capacity of the waiver of plat in any way. (f)For Permanent Buildings to be used as Single Family or Townhouse Production Homes: Permits for single family or townhouse production homes will be approved when: (1)The tentative plat has been approved or the waiver of plat has been recommended for approval by the Plat Committee and is current. (2)Paving and Drainage plans have been approved. A bond in lieu of the immediate construction of any improvements (if required) shall have been approved by the Public Works and Waste Management Department for any waiver of plat. (3)All DERM requirements, including the approval of Water and Sewer Extension plans are complied with.(4)The proposed final or waiver of plat for the subdivision in which the production homes are to be located has been listed on an agenda for approval by the Board of County Commissioners. (5)A letter, signed by the property owner, has been submitted to the supervisor, Platting Section, requesting approval of production homes prior to final plat recording, or waiver of plat approval by the Board of County Commissioners. The letter shall state that the owner understands and agrees that the production home shall not be occupied until the plat is recorded in the public records, or the waiver of plat has been approved by the Board of County Commissioners and the resolution is recorded in the public records, and that the penalty for violation of this occupancy prohibition shall be the demolition of the production home. The letter shall also state that the owner agrees and shall hold Miami-Dade County, its employees and agents, harmless from any and all liability and causes of action of whatsoever nature and kind for and as a result of the issuance of building permits and any construction prior to final plat approval and recordation. or the waiver of plat has been approved by the Board of County Commissioners and the resolution is recorded in the public records. The Supervisor, should he/she approve the models, will send a copy of the owner's letter to the Zoning Processing Section to be placed in the plat file. (6)No certificate of completion shall be issued for any production home until after the final plat is recorded except that a Temporary of Certificate of Completion may be issued by the Planning and Zoning Department. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 03-94, § 1, 4-22-03; Ord. No. 12-41, § 2, 6-5-12) Sec. 28-12. Public improvements and maintenance, withholding from subdivisions not approved or accepted. All cities and the County shall withhold all public improvement of whatsoever nature, including the maintenance of streets and the furnishing of sewage facilities and water service from all subdivisions which have not been approved, and from all areas dedicated to the public which have not been accepted, in the manner prescribed herein. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77) Sec. 28-13. Drainage.(a) Master plan and manual of public works construction. The developer shall plan all drainage for his subdivision in accordance with the master plan entitled, "County Water-Control Plan," recorded in Plat Book 64, page 114 and in accordance with the flood criteria map, recorded in Plat Book 53, pages 68, 69, and 70, or as such plan and map may be changed or modified. The drainage plans shall be subject to approval of the Public Works Department for compliance with such plan. (b) Permit to construct or alter drainage ways. No individual, partnership, or corporation shall construct, deepen, widen, fill, reroute, or alter any existing drainage way, ditch, drain, or canal without first obtaining a written permit from the County's Department of Public Works and/or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management. Plans for all such work shall comply with the manual of public works construction of the County's Public Works Department, and all such work shall be done under the supervision and subject to the approval of the County's Department of Public Works and/or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management. Rights-of-way for all such drainage works and maintenance thereof as prescribed by the manual of public works and construction and the County water control plan, must be dedicated to the use of the public, such dedication to be made prior to any such construction or alteration if so required by the County's Public Works Department and/or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management. (c) Rights-of-way and easements. Whenever any drainage way, stream, or surface drainage course is located or planned in any area that is being subdivided, the subdivider shall dedicate such stream or drainage course and an adequate right-of-way necessary for maintenance, future expansion and other purposes along each side of such stream or drainage course as is determined by uniform standards prescribed by the manual of public works construction. (d) Storm water. Adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm water subject to standards prescribed in the manual of public works construction. (e) Contour map and drainage of adjacent areas. A contour map shall be prepared for the area comprising the subdivision and such additional areas as may be required by the County's Department of Public Works and/or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management, necessary to include all watersheds which drain into or through the property to be developed, provided that this map of the adjacent areas may be prepared from existing maps or other data available to and acceptable by the County's Department of Public Works and/or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management. The design for drainage of the subdivision must be adequate to provide for drainage of adjacent water shed areas, and design of drainage structures must provide for drainage of adjacent water sheds after complete development of the total area. Where ditches and canals are required, rights-of-way shall be provided for future needs in accordance with uniform standards proscribed in the County's manual of public works construction. Provided, however, that the developers may be permitted by the County's Department of Public Works and/or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management to excavate or open, or construct necessary drainage ways and structures only of sufficient capacity to provide for existing drainage needs whenever the developed or undeveloped status of adjacent water sheds may so warrant as determined by the County's Department of Public Works, and/or the County's Department of Environmental Resources Management. (f) Off-site drainage. Off-site drainage shall be mutually coordinated by and between the subdivider, and the plat division of the appropriate authority. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77) Sec. 28-14. Design standards.(A) Conformity with master plan. If a master plan has been adopted for such area, the proposed subdivision shall conform in principle with such master plan. (B) Streets. (1)Conformance. The arrangement, extent, width, grade and location of all streets shall conform to the master plan, if one (1) has been adopted for the area, and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, to public conveniences, safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets. Where not shown on the master plan, the arrangement and the other design standards of streets shall conform to the provisions found herein. (2)Relation to adjoining street system. The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions for the continuation of existing streets in adjoining areas. (3)Projection of street. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions for the proper projection of streets. (4)Streets to be carried to property lines. When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land then the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of the tract proposed to be subdivided where required to promote reasonable development of the adjacent lands or provide continuity of road systems. (5)Street jogs prohibited. Street jobs with center line offsets of less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall be prohibited unless because of unusual conditions the plat division determines that a lesser center line offset is justified. (6)Dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs. Dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs designated to be so permanently, shall not be longer than six hundred (600) feet, and at the closed end, a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of at least eighty-four (84) feet, and a street property line diameter of at least one hundred (100) feet, may be required. If a dead-end street is of a temporary nature a similar turnaround may be required, and provision made for future extension of street into adjoining property, as may be required by the plat division. (7)Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision butts on or contains an existing limited access highway, freeway, parkway or arterial street, marginal access streets or other such treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential property and to afford separation of through and local traffic may be required. (8)Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.(9)Railroad on or abutting subdivision. Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way or limited access highway right-of-way, a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way may be required, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land for park purposes in residential districts or for commercial or for industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances shall be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grade and future grade separation in accordance with uniform standards prescribed by the manual of public works construction. (10)A tangent of at least one hundred (100) feet long shall be introduced between reversed curves on arterial and collector streets.(11)When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one (1) point by more than ten (10) degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius adequate to insure a sight distance and safe turning movement in accordance with uniform standards prescribed by the County's manual of public works construction. (12)Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles.(13)Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a radius of twenty-five (25) feet. A greater radius may be prescribed by the plat division in special cases in accordance with uniform standards prescribed by the County's manual of public works construction. The plat division may permit comparable cutoffs or chords in place of rounded corners. (14)Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the master plan or in Chapter 33 of this Code and where not so shown shall be not less than as follows: (a)Arterial—One hundred (100) feet right-of-way;(b)Collector—Seventy (70) feet right-of-way;(c)Minor, for apartments and residences—Fifty (50) to sixty (60) feet right-of-way as may be determined in uniform standards prescribed by the County's manual of public works construction; (d)Marginal access—Forty-five (45) feet where required in residential areas—Fifty (50) feet where access is limited, by a limited access highway, a railroad or canal—Seventy (70) feet in industrial subdivision; (e)Minor for industrial areas—Seventy (70) feet right-of-way; unless because of unusual conditions the plat division determines that a lesser right-of-way width is justified. (15)Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with other requirements of these regulations, and where the plat division of the appropriate authority finds it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tracts. (16)No street names or numbers shall be used which will be confused with or duplicate the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the plat division of the appropriate authority. (C) Alleys. (1)Alleys may be dedicated in commercial and industrial districts, except that the plat division of the appropriate authority may waive this requirement where other definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading, and parking consistent and adequate for the uses proposed. (2)The width of any alley shall not be less than twenty (20) feet.(D) Easements. (1)Easements across lots (not including drainage) and, where possible, centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for utilities where necessary. (2)Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, or canal, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith in accordance with uniform standards prescribed by the manual of public works construction. (E) Blocks. (1)The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due regard to:(a)Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special need of the type of use contemplated.(b)Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions.(c)Need for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street traffic.(d)Limitations and opportunities of topography.(2)Block length shall not exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet, or be less than four hundred (400) feet, unless a lesser or greater length is requested by the subdivider and is deemed advisable because of unusual conditions by the plat division of the appropriate authority. (3)In blocks nine hundred (900) feet in length or over, pedestrian crosswalks not less than ten (10) feet wide may be required to provide circulation or access to school, playground, shopping center, transportation, and other community facilities. (F) Lots. (1)The lot depth, shape and orientation, and the minimum building setback lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and on the type of development and use contemplated. (a)Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the appropriate authority.(b)Each lot shall be provided, by means of a public street, with satisfactory access to an existing public street or in the case of units within a townhouse site, or cluster development, each lot shall be provided perpetual right of access by private street or roadway to an existing public street in accordance with the provisions of Section 33-202.3, Metropolitan Code, or where applicable, municipal townhouse or cluster regulations. (c)Double frontage or through lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation. A decorative masonry wall, or in the sole discretion of the plat division of the appropriate authority a combination of fence and landscaping that provides a satisfactory buffer may be required along the rear property line, across which there shall be no right of vehicular access. This portion of the block line shall be shown as a limited access line on the final plat. Visual screening for decorative walls. In an effort to prevent graffiti vandalism, the following options shall be utilized for walls abutting zoned or dedicated rights-of-way: a. Wall with landscaping. The wall shall be setback two and one-half (2½) feet from the right-of-way line and the resulting setback area shall contain a continuous extensively landscaped buffer which must be maintained in a good healthy condition by the property owner, or where applicable, by the condominium, homeowners or similar association. The landscape buffer shall contain one or more of the following planting materials: 1. Shrubs. Shrubs shall be a minimum of three (3) feet in height when measured immediately after planting and shall be planted and maintained to form a continuous, unbroken, solid, visual screen within one (1) year after time of planting. 2. Hedges. Hedges shall be a minimum of three (3) feet in height when measured immediately after planting and shall be planted and maintained to form a continuous, unbroken, solid, visual screen within one (1) year after time of planting. 3. Vines. Climbing vines shall be a minimum of thirty-six (36) inches in height immediately after planting. b. Metal picket fence. Where a metal picket fence abutting a zoned or dedicated right-of-way is constructed in lieu of a decorative wall, landscaping shall not be required. (d)Side lot lines shall, where possible, be substantially at right angles or radial to street lines.(G) Acceptance of dedication. The dedication of public spaces shall not constitute an acceptance of the dedication by the County. The acceptance of the dedication shall be indicated by a resolution of the governing body and by an indication on the plat. (H) Waiver of standards. Those design standards enumerated within (B) "Streets", (C) "Alleys," and (F) "Lots" above may be waived by the plat division of the appropriate authority, except that the plat division of the appropriate authority may not waive (F)(1)(a) "Lot dimensions." (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 78-14, § 1, 3-21-78; Ord. No. 95-19, § 22, 2-7-95; Ord. No. 99-38, § 1, 4-27-99) Sec. 28-15. Required improvements. Prior to the granting of the final approval, the subdivider shall have installed or shall have furnished adequate bond of one hundred ten (110) percent of the cost of improvements for the ultimate installation of the following: (a) Permanent reference monuments. Monuments shall be constructed and placed in accordance with Chapter 177 of Florida Statutes. (b) Streets. (1)Construction; inspection; approval. All streets shall be constructed and surfaced in accordance with applicable standards specifications of the County entitled "Specifications for Second Road Construction and Residential Streets," or in accordance with requirements indicated in the County's manual of public works construction of the Department of Public Works. Such construction shall be subject to the inspection by the governing body or their designated representatives, and subjected to issuance of permits. Where street construction complies in specifications such installation shall be approved. No other permits of any kind for construction of streets shall be required. (2)Curbs, gutters and drainage. Curbs, gutters, drainage and drainage structures which are required by ordinance shall be provided in accordance with standard specifications or in accordance with the manual of public works construction of the Department of Public Works. Such construction shall be subject to the inspection of the governing body or their designated representatives, and subjected to issuance of permits therefor. (3)Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required in all residential, multiple-family and business areas and along all arterial highways, except, that in areas zoned in the agricultural zone classification, or other zone classifications requiring lots of similar frontage and area, no sidewalks shall be required; and except in those areas zoned in the EU-1, EU-M or EU-S classifications or other zone classification requiring lots of similar frontage and areas, sidewalks shall be required only along section and quarter section lines or roads that may be substituted therefor. On plats within municipalities, sidewalk requirements may be waived by the municipalities, on roads that are not County maintained. (4)Street signs. Street name signs shall be placed at all street intersections within or abutting the subdivision. Such signs shall be of a type approved by the County and shall be placed in accordance with the standards of the County and the manual of public works construction. The type of street signs and their locations shall meet with the approval and inspection of the County's Director of Traffic and Transportation. (5)Waiver of improvements. Those required street improvements enumerated within (1) "Construction; inspection; approval" through (4) "Street signs" above may be waived by the County's Plat Division. (6)Guardrails. On any street adjacent to or abutting a canal, a lake or other body of water a guardrail or other form of traffic barrier must be installed to protect any vehicle from entering the canal, lake or other body of water. (c) Water supply system. (1)Water supply system. Where a water supply system is required by the Public Health Director, each lot within the subdivision area shall be provided with a connection thereto. All systems and extensions shall be subject to the approval of the Directors of the Department of Public Health and the Public Works Department and the Department of Environmental Resources Management and shall be in accordance with all State and County regulations and standards governing their installation. (2)Individual wells. Where a water supply system is not required, individual wells may be permitted by the Public Health Director and/or the Director of Environmental Resources Management if all County and State regulations and standards governing their installations and uses are adequately met. (3)Fire hydrants. Where required by the Fire Department Chief, fire hydrants or fire wells shall be installed in all subdivisions in accordance with the uniform standards established by the public works manual. (d) Sewage disposal system. (1)Sewer systems. Where a sewer system is required by the Director of Environmental Resources, each lot in the subdivision shall be provided with a connection thereto. All systems, extensions, and connections shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Environmental Resources Management and shall be in accordance with all County and State regulations and standards governing their installation. (2)Septic tanks. Septic tanks may be permitted upon approval by the Director of Environmental Resources Management in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 24 of the Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Code. Septic tanks shall be installed in compliance with all of the requirements, specifications and standards of the County and State governing their use. (e) Underground electric and communication lines. Except as expressly provided hereinafter, all utility lines including but not limited to those required for electrical power distribution, telephone and telegraph communication, street lighting and television signal service shall be installed underground. This section shall apply to all cables, conduits or wires forming part of an electrical distribution system including service lines to individual properties and main distribution feeder electric lines delivering power to local distribution systems; provided that it shall not apply to wires, conductors or associated apparatus and supporting structures whose exclusive function is in transmission of electrical energy between generating stations, substations and transmission lines of other utility systems. Appurtenances such as transformer boxes, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes, and meter cabinets may be placed aboveground but shall be located in conformance with the requirements of the manual of public works construction. In areas zoned for industrial use, all electrical and communication distribution systems may be installed overhead, but the service conductors from the utility pole to the building (structure) shall be an underground service lateral. Easements shall be provided for the installation of utilities or relocating existing facilities in conformance with the respective utility company's rules and regulations. In subdivisions of less than twenty-one (21) lots, the plat division of the appropriate authority may waive the requirements for underground installations if the service to the adjacent area is overhead and it does not appear that further development will occur. Any new service which is allowed by the provisions herein to be supplied by overhead utilities shall be connected to a service panel that is convertible for underground utility service at a future date. The subdivider or developer shall make the necessary costs and other arrangements for such underground installation with each of the persons, firms or corporations furnishing utility services involved. (f) Decorative masonry walls. Decorative masonry walls, not to exceed seven (7) feet in height, or an acceptable combination of fence and landscaping shall be installed adjacent to the rear lot line of double frontage lots as required by the plat division of the appropriate authority. For purposes of this section only, an "acceptable combination of fence and landscaping" shall be based upon the following factors: (1)Conformity with existing architecture and landscaping of the subdivision; and(2)Conformity with the objectives of maintaining privacy for the residents of the subdivision.(g) Street and alley lighting. On plats within the unincorporated areas of the County street and alley lighting will be provided for through the establishment of a special taxing district. In subdivisions of less than twenty-one (21) lots, the Directors of the Public Works, and the Planning and Zoning Departments may waive the requirements for street lights if the benefits derived are not consistent with the costs thereof. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 78-14, § 2, 3-21-78; Ord. No. 78-32, § 1, 5-2-78; Ord. No. 81-78, § 1, 7-7-81; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 96-171, § 3, 11-19-96; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-143, § 1, 10-5-99; Ord. No. 08-17, § 1, 2-7-08) Sec. 28-16. Construction plan.(a) Preparation. The subdivider, or his engineer, shall confer with the appropriate agencies to determine the standards and specifications which will govern the proposed improvements. The subdivider shall submit complete construction plans prepared by an engineer and/or surveyor, as the case may be, registered in the State of Florida for the entire development of the area for which application to plat has been submitted, together with the complete and accurate contour map using U.S.C. and G.S. datum, to the appropriate agencies for their review and approval. The construction plans shall include the complete design of required sanitary sewer system, water supply system, storm drainage system and the street system for the entire area to be subdivided. Due consideration shall be given to the problems that may be created by the subdivision of adjacent lands, especially as pertains to drainage in order that conformance with the overall drainage plan will be obtained. The subdivider shall do no construction work until his completed construction plans have been approved by the appropriate agencies. Reasonable time must be allotted for the proper study of the plans submitted. (b) Reserved. (c) Construction of improvements; employing engineer. After approved construction plans have been filed and approved, the subdivider may construct the required improvements, subject to obtaining the required permits from the appropriate agencies. On plats within the unincorporated areas of the County the Director of the Department of Public Works, and if sewerage and water systems are involved, the Director of the Department of Public Health shall be notified in advance of the date that such construction shall be commenced. Construction shall be performed under the supervision of the appropriate agencies and shall at all times be subject to inspection by these agencies. However, this in no way shall relieve the subdivider and his engineer of close field supervision and final compliance with the approved plans and specifications. Where deemed necessary, in accordance with the County's manual of public works construction, the appropriate agencies may require the subdivider to employ a registered engineer for complete supervision of the construction or installation of the improvements involved, and may require progress reports and final certificate of the construction or installation from such engineer. The appropriate agencies shall establish detailed regulations governing the inspections to be furnished by the developer or his engineer and may refuse to accept work which has been done without proper inspection. No construction work shall be undertaken prior to obtaining the required permits. (d) Acceptance of improvements. When construction is complete in accordance with the approved plan and specifications and complies with the provisions of these regulations, the subdivider shall obtain written final approval and acceptance from the appropriate agencies. (e) Bond in lieu of immediate construction. In lieu of immediate construction of improvements, the subdivider may file with the governing body a cash bond or letter of credit in an amount approved by the plat division and a company approved by the governing body or the department authorized by them, to insure the County the actual satisfactory completion of construction of proposed improvements within a period of not more than one (1) year from the date of such bond. The bond for the installation of sidewalks may be a separate bond. Provisions shall be made for extension of all such bonds, such extension to be commensurate with the progress of the development. Provisions shall also be made for reduction of such bonds, such reduction to be commensurate with the percentage of improvements constructed in the subdivision concerned. This bond shall also include a maintenance provision for two (2) years covering drainage and for one (1) year covering all other improvements by the subdivider. The amount to be included for maintenance shall be outlined in the manual of public works construction. Bonds shall be subject to cancellation, reduction or renewal only by the governing body upon written certification of the plat division of the appropriate agency. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 94-51, § 3, 3-17-94) Annotation—CAO 77-31. Sec. 28-17. Subdivision of portion of tract. The owner or developer of a tract may prepare a master plan for that entire tract and then may submit a tentative and final plat for only a portion of the tract. No construction of subdivision improvements shall be started until construction plans for the entire area covered by the final plat have been approved. Except as provided in Section 28-16(c), improvements must be installed for all of that area for which a final plat is submitted before building permits will be issued. In such cases of partial subdivision of a tract, the street system, drainage systems, trunk sewers and sewage treatment plants and water plants shall be designed and built to serve the entire area, or designed and built in such a manner as to be easily expanded or extended to service the entire area. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77) Sec. 28-18. Encroachment on or in streets.(a)No building or any other type of structure shall be permitted on or in, a mapped street, except required and approved underground installations, and further excepting that pump houses for drip irrigation may be permitted to encroach into public rights-of-way providing prior written approval is obtained from the Director of Public Works Department, and further providing that a building permit is secured for such pump house placement. The Public Works Director shall determine whether the request will be contrary to the public interest based upon the following criteria: (a) safe and sufficient passing distance for motorists and pedestrians, (b) location of existing pavement, if any, (c) safe sight distance for motorists, (d) the effect on adjacent land uses, (e) access to land in the area. Upon the Director's determination that the pump house encroachment will not be contrary to the public interest the property owner shall execute and deliver a written covenant running with the land in favor of Miami-Dade County committing that within sixty (60) days after notice from the Public Works Director that the pump house has become contrary to the public interest based on the above-mentioned criteria, the property owner shall remove the pump house at the owner's expense and terminate the encroachment. Said covenant shall be in a form approved by the County Attorney's Office, and shall be executed so as to be entitled to recording in the public records of Miami-Dade County. The property owner shall establish that there is no lien or encumbrance prior in right to such covenant except for non-delinquent ad valorem property taxes, failing which a removal bond satisfactory to the Public Works Director shall additionally be posted. Upon the owner's compliance with the provisions of this section, the Public Works Director shall issue written approval. (b)For the purpose of this section, "drip irrigation" shall mean low volume irrigation as defined in Section 32-8.2(c), Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, which is intended and designed to deliver water and nutrients to the root area of a plant in quantities matching evapotranspiration requirements as closely as possible, and at a rate close to what the soil will absorb. (c)(1)Wire fences without barbed wire may be permitted to be constructed within the rights-of-way set forth in Section 33-133, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, providing written approval is obtained from the Director of the Public Works Department, and further providing that a building permit is secured for such fence placement. An applicant for the Public Works Director's approval of a wire fence shall submit the written consents of all the owners of all parcels abutting the subject property, and of all the owners of all parcels immediately across the street from the subject site. In the event the applicant is unable to submit such consents, an application for non-use variance may be filed pursuant to the provisions of Sections 28-18(c)(2) and 33-311 of the Code. Prior to consideration by the Public Works Director, notice shall be mailed to all property owners within one thousand (1,000) feet of the property on which the fence is to be located if the property is situated wholly within the Urban Development Boundary (as shown on the Comprehensive Development Master Plan), and to all property owners within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of such property, if any portion of such property is outside the Urban Development Boundary. The notice shall state that any interested party may respond in writing within thirty (30) days and that no permit will be granted until after the thirty-day period has expired. After considering the application and all statements of interested parties, the Public Works Director shall determine whether the requested fence will be contrary to the public interest based upon the following criteria: (a) location of existing pavement, if any; (b) safe sight distance for motorists; (c) effect on adjacent land uses; (d) access to land in the area; and (e) safe recovery zone for vehicles. Under no circumstances shall any fence or wall be placed within the public right-of-way less than ten (10) feet from the edge of any existing roadway pavement. Upon the Director's determination that the fence will not be contrary to the public interest, the property owner shall execute and deliver a written covenant running with the land in favor of Miami-Dade County committing that within sixty (60) days after notice from the Public Works Director that the fence has become inconsistent with the public interest based on the above-mentioned criteria the property owner shall remove the fence at the owner's expense. Said covenant shall be in a form approved by the county attorney's office, and shall be executed so as to be entitled to recording in the public records of Miami-Dade County. The property owner shall establish that there is no lien or encumbrance prior in right to such covenant except for non-delinquent ad valorem property taxes, failing which a removal bond satisfactory to the Public Works Director shall additionally be posted. (2)The director shall publish notice of his determination regarding fence placement or removal in a newspaper of general circulation and shall provide mail notice to the same property owners who were entitled to be mailed notice in advance of the director's determination, as provided in this subsection. Appeal of the director's determination or decision shall be filed within thirty (30) days of such publication or of the mailing of such notice, whichever date is later, and shall proceed as provided in subsection (d) of this section. The public interest criteria contained in this subsection shall apply to any appeal regarding the placement in or removal from the right-of-way of any wire fence. No masonry wall or wood fence shall be permitted to be constructed on or in a right-of-way unless approved as a non-use variance pursuant to the provisions of Section 33-311 of the Code. In addition to the criteria set forth in Section 33-311(e)(2), the public interest criteria contained in this subsection shall apply to any public hearing or appeal regarding the placement in or removal from the right-of-way of any masonry wall or wood fence. (d)Appeals of the director's decision regarding pump house or fence placement or removal may be taken to the Community Zoning Appeals Board pursuant to Section 33-311(c), Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, and, thereafter, to the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to Sections 33-313 through 33-316 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 92-94, § 2, 9-15-92; Ord. No. 94-24, § 1, 2-1-94; Ord. No. 94-50, § 1, 3-17-94; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98) Sec. 28-19. Variances.(a) Authority of Community Zoning Appeals Board. The County's Community Zoning Appeals Board may authorize a variance from these regulations. The Community Zoning Appeals Board may vary the regulations so that substantial justice may be done, provided that such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the overall community plan. In granting any variance, the County's Community Zoning Appeals Board shall prescribe any conditions that are deemed necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, the Community Zoning Appeals Board shall take into account among other things the nature of the proposed use of the land and the exiting use of the land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless the County's Community Zoning Appeals Board finds, among other things, that all three (3) of the following conditions exist in regard to the land concerned: (1)That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the property and that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land. (2)That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant.(3)That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the other property in the territory in which the property is situated. (b) Large scale developer. The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by the Community Zoning Appeals Board in the case of a plan and program for a new town or a complete community which in the judgment of the Community Zoning Appeals Board provides adequate public spaces and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air, and service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also provides such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan. (c) Hearing and notice. All such variances shall be granted only after hearing and notice as prescribed in Section 33-310. The Community Zoning Appeals Board shall not act without considering the recommendations of the Planning Director and the Zoning Official. (d) Variance to specified sections. Where the use of a fire well or septic tank or both well and septic tank have been approved for use as provided in Sections 28-15(c)(2), 28-15(c)(3) and 28-15(d)(2), a variance to these sections need not be authorized by the Community Zoning Appeals Board. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 78-12, § 3, 3-21-78; Ord. No. 94-51, § 4, 3-17-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 96-127, § 3, 9-4-96; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98) Sec. 28-20. Municipal regulations; effect. Any municipality which has, or which desires to provide higher standards of subdivision regulations than those provided by this chapter shall certify such regulations, as have been adopted in accordance with law, to the County Department of Public Works. Any such regulations which provide for higher standards in any municipality shall be enforced as a supplement to this chapter by the County departments concerned. (Ord. No. 77-6, § 1, 2-1-77; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 18, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-123, § 2, 9-21-99)

,Chapter 28A SEAPORT SECURITY AND OPERATIONS [1]

Sec. 28A-1. Legislative intent.Sec. 28A-2. Definitions; applicability of chapter provisions; disclaimer of liability; right of access of public officers, etc.; use and enjoyment of premises; offenses and penalties.Sec. 28A-3. Procedures governing the area of cargo operations and other restricted areas.Sec. 28A-4. Identification permit for vehicles and motor vehicles.Sec. 28A-5. Identification cards for persons.Sec. 28A-6. Licensing and permits for stevedores.Sec. 28A-7. Administrative review procedure.Sec. 28A-8. Identification.Sec. 28A-9. Freight security.Sec. 28A-10. Port watchmen, private security personnel.Sec. 28A-11. Fees.Sec. 28A-12. Prohibited conduct.Sec. 28A-13. Personal conduct.Sec. 28A-1. Legislative intent. The intent of the County Commission in enacting this chapter is to accomplish the following goals and purposes at the Port of Miami: (1)Improve security.(2)Retain certain of the present identification procedures, and adopt certain new procedures providing greater security protection.(3)Curb theft and fraud within Miami-Dade County relating to goods or merchandise constituting freight or cargo within the Port of Miami. (4)Establish rules and regulations governing seaport security and operations.(5)Preserve the public peace by preventing crime, detecting, arresting and prosecuting violators of Chapter 28A of the Code of Miami-Dade County, and protecting the rights of persons and property within Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Sec. 28A-2. Definitions; applicability of chapter provisions; disclaimer of liability; right of access of public officers, etc.; use and enjoyment of premises; offenses and penalties. 28A-2.1. Definitions. Words not specifically defined in this Section 28A-2 which relate to maritime and shipping industries or practices, processes and equipment shall be construed according to their general usage in the shipping industry. The definitions contained in this section shall apply to Chapter 28A, Code of Miami-Dade County. (1) Abandon shall mean to forsake, desert, give up and surrender one's claim or right. (2) Area of cargo operations and ACO shall mean that portion of the Port of Miami (also known as the "port terminal facility") which is primarily devoted to the holding and handling of cargo and freight, and which the Director designates as an area in which limited ingress and egress is required for the safety, protection or security of the public and the cargo and freight within it. (3) Authorized shall mean acting under or pursuant to a written contract, license, permit, instruction or other evidence of right issued by the Board or the Manager or his designee. (4) Board shall mean the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (5) Bus shall mean a passenger motor vehicle designed to accommodate no less than twenty-one (21) passengers, exclusive of the driver. (6) Cargo shall mean the load, lading, goods or merchandise conveyed or consigned for transit upon any vessel or vehicle or stored at a port terminal facility. (7) Carrier of freight shall mean any person who is engaged or holds himself out as willing to be engaged in carriage of freight or passenger baggage by water or land between any point in the port and a point outside the port. (8) Checker shall mean any person employed to verify freight loaded, off-loaded or stored at the port, particularly freight handled by longshoremen. The term shall include foremen and crew leaders. (9) Commercial activity shall mean (a) the shipping, transferring, exchanging, trading, buying, hiring, or selling of commodities, goods, services, freight or property of any kind on the port, (b) engaging in any conduct on the port for revenue-producing purposes, whether or not revenues ultimately are exchanged, obtained, or transferred on the port, or (c) the offering or exchange of any service on the port as a part of, or condition to, other revenue-producing activities or services on or off the port. (10) County shall mean Miami-Dade County, State of Florida. (11) Courtesy car, courtesy van, and courtesy vehicle shall mean "courtesy vehicle" as defined in Section 25-1.1 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, except that the word airport shall be substituted by the word port, as defined in Section 28A-2. 1. (12) Department shall mean the Miami-Dade County Seaport Department, also known as the Dante B. Fascell Port of Miami-Dade. (13) Director shall mean the administrative head of the Seaport Department, appointed by the County Manager, the deputy or acting Director, or the Director's designee. (14) Domestic animal shall mean any animal of a species usually domesticated in the United States and customarily found in the home. (15) Explosives shall mean any chemical compound or mixture that has the property of yielding readily to combustion or oxidation upon application of heat, flame or shock, or any device, the primary purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term "explosives" includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, nitroglycerine, trinitrotoluene ammonium nitrate when combined with other ingredients to for an explosive mixture, or other high explosives, detonators, safety fuses, squibbs, detonating cords, igniter cords and igniters. Explosives shall not include shotgun shells, cartridges or ammunition for firearms. (16) For-hire passenger motor vehicle, and limousine shall mean such terms as defined in Section 31-81 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. "Passenger motor vehicle" shall mean such term as defined in Section 31-102 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (17) Freight shall mean cargo and passenger baggage carried, consigned or stored at any port terminal facility. (18) Law Enforcement Officer shall mean any person employed and vested with the police power of arrest under federal, state or county authority. (19) Longshoreman shall mean an employee of a stevedore or stevedoring firm at the port whose work consists of the freight loading or unloading of vessels at the port or the movement of freight incidental to, immediately prior to, or following such loading or unloading of a vessel. (20) Minibus shall mean a passenger motor vehicle designed to accommodate between twelve (12) and twenty (20) passengers, exclusive of the driver. (21) Motor vehicle shall mean a device in, upon or by which a person or property may be propelled, moved or drawn upon land or water. However, a device moved solely by human or animal power, or aircraft, or a device moved exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks shall be defined as a "vehicle," rather than as a "motor vehicle." (22) Operational directives shall refer to instructions, directives, rules and regulations pertaining to the operation of the Port of Miami, including Port of Miami Tariff No. 10 as amended, prepared and promulgated from time to time by the Director. When approved by the Board of County Commissioners, these operational directives shall have the same force and effect as County ordinances. (23) Operator, with respect to a vehicle or motor vehicle, shall mean any person in actual physical control thereof. "Operator," with respect to maritime or shipping services, shall mean any person carrying on the business of furnishing wharf, dock, warehouse or other terminal services or facilities. (24) Owner shall mean a person holding legal title to a vehicle or motor vehicle, or in the event that such vehicle is the subject of a mortgage, conditional sale or lease, then the person in whom the immediate right of possession thereof is vested. (25) Natural person shall be defined as a human being and shall not include a corporation a partnership, an association, a trustee, a receiver, or a governmental entity. (26) Parking enforcement specialist shall mean any department employee who successfully completes a training program established and approved by the Police Standards and Training Commission and is certified by the Commission to be a parking enforcement specialist. (27) Passenger van shall mean a passenger motor vehicle designed to accommodate no more than eleven (11) passengers, exclusive of the driver. (28) Person shall be as defined in Section 1.01(3). Florida Statutes, including a natural person and a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trustee, or a receiver. Person shall also include municipal, governmental and public bodies and their agents when such bodies or agents are using the port terminal facility. (29) Port shall mean the Dante B. Fascell Port of Miami-Dade, also known as the Port of Miami, and shall include Dodge Island and Lummus Island, port terminal facilities, and that area described as the "Miami Harbor" in the "Port of Miami Terminal Tariff," or any amendment thereto (issued by the County Manager under Administrative Order No. 4-4, pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Home Rule Charter). (30) Port security officer shall mean any individual employed by the Department for the purposes of maintaining security at the port. (31) Port terminal facility shall include, but not be limited to: harbor, channel, turning basin, anchorage area, jetty, breakwater, waterway, canal, lock, tidal basin, wharf dock, pier, slip, bulkhead, public landing, warehouse, terminal, refrigerating and cold storage plant, railroad and motor terminal for passengers and freight, rolling stock, railroad connection, sidetrack or siding, car ferry pipeline, shop administrative building, booth or office, tunnel, causeway, bridge, fence, parking lot, conveyors and appliances of all kinds for the handling, storage, inspection and transportation of freight and passenger traffic, whether between land and water or between two (2) vessel carriers. (32) Port watchman shall mean any watchman, gateman, roundsman, private investigator, guard, guardian or protector of property (whether employed by an person, carrier of freight, or the Department) to perform services in such capacity on any portion of the port, but shall not mean any Law Enforcement Officer. (33)Restricted area shall mean all areas of cargo operations and cruise operations, including (1) cruise passenger baggage terminals and (2) cruise passenger loading areas and all areas locked or posted as restricted areas. (34) Shipping industry shall refer to the movement of persons and property by water, and the means by which such movement is accomplished, and shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (a) Common carrier by water as defined in the Shipping Act of 1916, as amended, in 46 U.S.C. 801, (b) Common carrier as defined in the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 1, when engaged in the transport of cargo or freight to or from a port terminal facility, (c) Motor carrier and private carrier of property by motor vehicle as defined in the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, in 49 U.S.C. 303, when engaged in the transport of cargo or freight to or from a port terminal facility, (d) Air carrier, foreign air carrier and agent as defined in 49 U.S.C. 1301 when engaged in the transport of cargo or freight to or from a port terminal facility, (e) Vessel as defined in the Shipping Act of 1916, as amended, 46 U.S.C. 801, (f) Forwarding or forwarder as defined in 46 U.S.C. 801 and 49 U.S.C. 1002(5), (g)Employees, agents, servants or independent contractors of the above, and(h)Any person (including any governmental body) carrying on the business of furnishing a wharf, dock, warehouse or other port terminal facility in connection with any of the above. (35) Stevedore shall mean a contractor (but not including employees thereof) who for compensation moves, agrees to move, consigns or agrees to consign freight on a vessel, whether publicly or privately owned, at a port terminal facility that lies between a point in the port and a point outside the port. "Stevedore" shall also include a contractor (but not including employees thereof) who for compensation, performs or agrees to perform labor or services incidental to the movement of freight on a vessel at a port terminal facility; such movement of freight shall include the movement of freight into or out of containers which have been, a being or will be carried on vessels. (36) Taxicab shall mean any such term as defined in Section 31-81 of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (37) Traffic shall refer to pedestrians, vessels and vehicles, while operating within any port area. (38) Waterborne freight shall mean freight carried or consigned for carriage on a vessel. (39) Weapon shall mean a gun, knife, blackjack, slingshot, metal knuckles, or any explosive device, or any other like instrument capable of being utilized to coerce, intimidate or injure an individual. (40) Wild animal shall mean any animal of a species not usually domesticated in the United States nor customarily found in the home. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 81-88, § 1, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 88-116, § 1, 12-6-88; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 1, 6-2-98; Ord. No. 00-29, § 3, 2-24-00) 28A-2.2. Applicability of Chapter 28A provisions. (a)Any permission granted to a person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity by the Board, County Manager or Director, directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, to enter upon or use the port, including the area of cargo operations and restricted areas, is conditioned upon compliance with Chapter 28A and operational directives and the payment of any and all fees or charges established and payable to the County; such fees and charges shall include any and all fees or charges established or approved by the Board or the County Manager; and entry upon or into port property by any person shall be deemed to constitute an agreement by such person to comply with such rules and regulations and to pay any such fees and charges. (b)It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any act forbidden by or to fail to perform any act required by these rules and regulations or to fail to pay any fees established and payable pursuant to Chapter 28A (c)The Department, through its Director, may from time to time cause to be issued operational directives applicable to any port property. If any such operational directive contains a requirement that fees or charges by paid for any operation on or use of a port facility or property as defined in the operational directive, such fees and charges shall be established in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 28A. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-2.3. Port liability. The County assumes no responsibility or liability for any loss, injury or damage to persons or property at the port, nor in connection with the use of a port terminal facility. The placing of property of any nature, including freight on seaport property pursuant to port tariff, shall not be construed, under any circumstances, as a bailment of that property by Miami-Dade County; and Miami-Dade County, its officers, employees and agents shall not be considered as bailees of any property whatsoever. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-2.4. Access of public employees and law enforcement officers. Department employees and law enforcement officers shall have free and full access to and from any and all places and things on the port to make inspections and/or enforce the provisions of this chapter. No person shall obstruct or interfere with any Law Enforcement Officer or any designated Department employee conducting such inspection and/or enforcement or in the performance of any other power or duty required of such officer or employees. Provided, however, that such free and full access shall be subject to all appropriate federal statutes and regulations enforced by the U.S. Customs Service or other agency of either state or federal governments. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-2.5. Offenses and penalties. Every person who violates any provision of Chapter 28A shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment in the Miami-Dade County Jail for a period of not more than sixty (60) days, or both; provided, however, that parking and pedestrian violations shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the maximum allowable fine prescribed by the Laws of the State of Florida and/or the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 98-78, § 1, 6-2-98) 28A-2.6. Emergencies. The Director is empowered to take such action as the Director deems necessary when an emergency exists at a port facility or property which, in the Director's judgment, presents an immediate threat to public health, security, safety or welfare, or to the operation of a port facility or property; provided, however, that in the exercise of such power the Director shall promptly notify the governmental agency(ies) or County department(s) having been assigned by the Board or County Manager primary responsibility for the handling and resolution of such emergency, and provided further that the Director's power herein granted shall cease upon the assumption of jurisdiction over such emergency by the governmental agency(ies) or County department(s) and such assumption of responsibility shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of any emergency procedure or program for a port facility or property adopted and approved by the Board. No action shall knowingly be taken by the Director hereunder or by any County department(s) contrary to any regulation or order of the Federal, State or County agency having appropriate jurisdiction. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-2.7. Trespassing. Whoever, without being fully authorized, licensed or invited, willfully enters or remains at a port facility or property, or a portion thereof, or having been authorized, licensed or invited to a port facility or property, or portion thereof, is warned or ordered by authorized Department personnel or a law enforcement officer to depart, and refuses to do so, commits the offense of trespass. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-2.8. Other laws. All applicable provisions of the laws of the State of Florida, now in existence or hereafter enacted, are hereby adopted by reference as part of these rules and regulations. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-2.9. Jurisdiction. The violation of any provision hereof shall be triable in the Miami-Dade County Court. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-2.10. Severability. If any provision of these rules and regulations or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of these rules and regulations and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Sec. 28A-3. Procedures governing the area of cargo operations and other restricted areas. 28A-3.0. Access. No person shall enter an area of cargo operations or other restricted area unless clearly displaying an identification card allowing for such access or first being authorized to do so by the Director, a designee of the Director, or a law enforcement officer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 28A-3.0 shall not apply to properly ticketed cruise vessel passengers engaged in cruise vessel embarkation or disembarkation. (Ord. No. 81-88, § 1, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-3.1. Consent to inspection. Any vehicle or motor vehicle, and the contents thereof, entering, departing from or being within the area of cargo operations or other restricted area shall be subject to inspection by the Director, Departmental employees, or any Law Enforcement Officer for the purposes of determining ownership of such vehicle, the contents thereof, and for examining the documentation relating to the said contents; such inspection shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Customs Service related to bonded cargo and customs seals. The operation or use of a vehicle or motor vehicle by any person into, from or within the area of cargo operations or a restricted area of the port shall constitute the consent of the owner, operator or user of such vehicle to the aforesaid inspection. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-3.2. Inspections. No person shall enter an area of cargo operations or other restricted areas of the port except persons who enter pursuant to Section 28A-5, cruise vessel passengers engaged in cruise vessel embarkation or disembarkation or employees of federal, State or local government bodies then having proper business thereon and bearing proper identification required by the provisions of this Chapter 28A. No person entering or attempting to enter, being within, or departing from or attempting to depart the area of cargo operations or restricted area of the port shall refuse to produce for inspection at the request of the Director or Department employee or any Law Enforcement Officer a Department identification badge and/or the contents of any vehicle, bag, case, parcel, box or container of any kind in his possession. Where the entry into or departure from or attempt thereof is by means of a vehicle or motor vehicle, no person shall refuse to produce for inspection, after such request, a driver's license or department vehicle permit. No person shall refuse to produce at the request of the Director or Department employee or any Law Enforcement Officer any document in his possession relating to the ownership or possession of freight within the area of cargo operations or any restricted area. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-3.3. Control of vehicular traffic. Control of all vehicular traffic on the port shall be governed by the laws of the State of Florida, the Code of Miami-Dade County and operational directives. No person shall enter, operate or cause to be operated any vehicle or motor vehicle in the area of cargo operations or any other restricted area unless such entrance or operation is required for a cargo, passenger or business activity within such area and is authorized by the Department. No person shall operate any vehicle or motor vehicle within the area of cargo operations or other restricted area without a vehicle or motor vehicle identification decal as prescribed by Section 28A-4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no decal is required of local, state or federal governmental vehicles. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 2, 6-2-98) 28A-3.4. Parking. (a)No person shall park any vehicle or motor vehicle within the port in areas other than those designated or authorized by the Director or by operational directive, or in any other manner contrary to any posted Department sign, traffic control device or pavement marking. No person shall park any vehicle or motor vehicle within the port in a manner that will interfere with the use of a facility or area by others or obstruct passage or movement of emergency vehicles or other vehicles. (b)Parking, to the extent available, may be provided for personnel employed in the area of cargo operations or other restricted area, but will be restricted to areas designated by the Director. It shall be a violation of the provisions of this chapter for such personnel to park a vehicle in any area other than those expressly designated by the Director. (c)Whenever any vehicle or motor vehicle is improperly or illegally parked or positioned as to obstruct traffic, or is reasonably likely to cause a hazard to the health or safety of persons lawfully on the property, or impedes or is likely to impede the movement or handling of freight or passengers by reason of its position or condition, or is apparently abandoned on the port (as defined in Chapter 705, Florida Statutes), then the Director, his agents or a Law Enforcement Officer may remove the offending vehicle or motor vehicle. (d)The owners of vehicles or motor vehicles removed pursuant to subsection 28A-3.4(c) may reclaim same and shall be required to pay appropriate charges accrued against such vehicle for parking, removal and storage on the port. (e)Parking enforcement specialists and law enforcement officers are hereby authorized to issue uniform parking tickets. If the vehicle is unattended, the ticket may be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. The owner of said motor vehicle must answer to the charge placed against him within thirty (30) days as provided in Section 30-389.2 of this Code. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 81-88, § 1, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Sec. 28A-4. Identification permit for vehicles and motor vehicles. 28A-4.1. Vehicle and motor vehicle identification generally. Any person employed at the port on a permanent basis and driving a motor vehicle onto port premises and all persons owning, leasing, or operating one (1) or more vehicles or motor vehicles operating on the port and entering into or departing from the ACO or a restricted area (other than cruise vessel passengers engaged in vessel embarkation or disembarkation) shall obtain and maintain a current identification permit for each vehicle from the Department. Such permit may be a numbered decal reflecting the authorization to enter into the ACO or restricted area. Application for such permit must be accompanied by copies of the vehicle registration, certificate of insurance and the applicant's driver's license, as well as the driver's license of all anticipated operators of such vehicle or motor vehicle. The completed application for such permit (one (1) for each vehicle or motor vehicle) shall be submitted in duplicate on a form designed by Miami-Dade County. The owner or operator of such vehicle shall cause the permit to be permanently affixed to the vehicle or motor vehicle for which the permit was issued, and in a manner and place specified by the Director, so that it shall be plainly visible. Such permits shall be renewed by the vehicle or motor vehicle owner in a manner prescribed by the Director, annually before its expiration. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-4.2. Temporary vehicle, motor vehicle and construction vehicle identification permit. (a)A temporary limited identification permit, in the form of a pass, may be issued by the Director to the operator of a vehicle or motor vehicle for occasional or one-time access to a specific area within the area of cargo operations or restricted area or for a vehicle or motor vehicle engaged in construction activities within the port and approved by the Director. An owner of such vehicle shall obtain a permit at the Director's office or at the area of cargo operations upon approval by the Director. When issued it shall identify the vehicle or motor vehicle operator, operator's address, operator's driver's license number and issuing state and be valid only for the area designated, parking area (if any) and duration stamped on its face. The owner and operator of such vehicle shall cause it to be plainly visible at all times on the vehicle or motor vehicle to which it is issued. The permit shall be returned at the control gate when departing from the area of cargo operations or restricted area or at the Director's office when departing from other portions of the port. (b)A record of such temporary permits shall be maintained at the control gate. Any vehicle or motor vehicle operator who enters or who operates a vehicle or motor vehicle within the area of cargo operations more than five (5) times during a four-week period on a temporary permit may be denied a temporary identification permit and be required to obtain a permanent identification permit therefor. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-4.3. Report of changes in data in application for vehicle or motor vehicle permits. The owner, as defined in subsection 28A-2.1(16), shall report, in writing, to the Director or the office where the identification permit was originally processed, certain changes in the data on any application for a temporary, permanent, or construction vehicle, or motor vehicle permit within thirty (30) days of any of the following changes, namely: (1)New vehicle license plate (tag or decal) number;(2)Any change in data on vehicle registration certificate or driver's license of applicant;(3)Sale or other disposition of the registered vehicle, including the name and address of the transferee of any interest therein;(4)Change of vehicle color, motor or title number;(5)Loss or damage to permanent, temporary or construction vehicle or motor vehicle permit;(6)Change of regularly assigned place of employment;(7)Change of applicant's employer; or(8)Change in home address or business address of owner of the registered vehicle. Failure to report such changes by an owner or operator within ten (10) days of the change will result in the suspension of the current vehicle identification permit and shall cause operator's access to area of cargo operations or restricted area to be revoked until the change information is furnished. False statements in the change information shall be a violation of Chapter 28A. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-4.4. Identification of commercial or leased vehicles or motor vehicles. (a)All owners and operators of commercial vehicles or motor vehicles operated or used within the port shall comply with Section 8A-276, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (b)Before any leased vehicle or motor vehicle is authorized entry into the area of cargo operations or any restricted area, the operator thereof upon demand by the Director or Department employee or any Law Enforcement Officer shall comply with Section 28A-4 hereof and shall also present a legible copy of the agreement authorizing the use of the said vehicle by the operator or his employer. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-4.5. Ground transportation. (a)Any taxicab licensed pursuant to Section 31-82 of the County Code and for which a permit issued under Section 31-93(d) of the County Code is current and valid shall have the right to transport persons and their baggage from the Port of Miami. (b)Except for taxicabs as set forth in (a) above, no person shall transport another person or baggage by mini-bus, bus, passenger van, limousine, or any other passenger motor vehicle, or courtesy vehicle from the port, or engage in commercial activity on the port, without a valid permit issued by the Director and payment of any fee established in the Port of Miami Terminal Tariff. (c)It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to park in the ACO or any restricted area or in any loading zone for any longer period than is necessary to load or discharge persons or baggage. (d)No person shall operate a motor vehicle contrary to posted signs.(e)No person shall solicit or engage in the rental car business on the port without a valid permit issued by the Director and payment of any fee established in the Port of Miami Terminal Tariff. (f)Nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize the operation of a passenger motor vehicle or courtesy vehicle in violation of any other provisions of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, specifically including but not limited to Chapter 31. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 81-85, § 4, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 88-116, § 2, 12-6-88; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Sec. 28A-5. Identification cards for persons. 28A-5.1. Persons who may enter area of cargo operations or restricted area. No person, other than cruise vessel passengers engaged in the process of cruise vessel embarkation or disembarkation, shall have entry to any area of cargo operations or any restricted area unless such person possesses a current Seaport-issued identification card authorizing such access or whose access is otherwise expressly authorized under Chapter 28A. Identification cards shall be worn conspicuously on the outer garment of the bearer, in plain view above the waist. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-5.2. Plan for issuance. The Director shall devise, maintain and, as required, revise a plan for the issuance of identification cards to all port employees and non-port employees working on the port. Such plan shall provide various levels of security clearance based on the security requirements of distinct areas of the port. Such plan shall provide for ready identification of various clearance levels, based on card color: green for port employees; red for non-port employees with security access to restricted areas; blue for non-port employees with access to non-restricted public access areas; and white for non-port temporary employees which require no more than five (5) days access to port property; or such other color scheme as may be designated by the Director. With the exception of temporary identification cards, each identification card shall: (a)Be issued for a period not to exceed four (4) years;(b)Contain a photo of the cardholder;(c)Contain a physical description of the cardholder, to include but not be limited to height, weight, and date of birth of cardholder;(d)Contain the name, title, and employer, or in the case of a port employee the employing department and division or section, of cardholder; and (e)Contain a unique serial number not to be repeated on any other identification card. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 3, 6-2-98; Ord. No. 07-57, § 1, 4-24-07) 28A-5.3. Application. (a)The application for a permanent identification card is to be a public record filed in writing and shall contain the applicant's:(1)Full current name and any previous names and aliases used;(2)Current residential address and all residential addresses within the past five (5) years;(3)Date and place of birth;(4)Current employer and any previous employer within the past five (5) years;(5)Social Security number and driver's license number as well as a copy of the applicant's driver's license to be made by Seaport Security Division personnel from the original document; (6)Specific reason for entry into the area of cargo operations or restricted area;(7)A photo of applicant taken by the Department at the time of application submission;(8)Fingerprints authenticated by the Miami-Dade Police Department on an identification record form furnished by the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department. (9)Prior felony convictions or entries of findings of guilt (whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or a judgment of conviction entered by a court of competent jurisdiction); (10)Signed authorization to conduct a criminal or other background check on the applicant; and(11)Signatures of applicant, and employer for non-port employees or immediate supervisor for port employees.(b)Pending final action on an application for an identification card, or for individuals on the Port for no more than five (5) total days per calendar year, the Director or his or her designee may issue a temporary identification card to non-port employees. (c)In addition to the information required in subsection (a) above, the Director may require the applicant to produce such further facts and evidence as may be necessary to determine whether or not the applicant possesses the qualifications necessary for an identification card. (d)The making of a false statement in the application for an identification card under this section shall be grounds for refusal to issue the card and also shall be a violation of Chapter 28A (e)The Director may conduct or require a criminal and/or financial background check on any applicant, and may conduct or require such other background checks as the Director deems necessary. (f)No applicant for a Seaport identification card who, within the last ten (10) years, (i) has had a felony conviction or (ii) against whom a finding of guilty has been entered on a felony charge, shall be issued an identification card, except in the case of a Grandfathered Applicant, which shall be governed by subsection (g) below. (g)No Grandfathered Applicant for a Seaport identification card, who within the last ten (10) years, (i) has had a felony conviction or (ii) against whom a finding of guilty has been entered on a felony charge shall be issued an identification card, provided, however, that any felony falling within one of the following two categories shall not be considered: (A)Any felony conviction or finding of guilt more than five (5) years prior to the effective date of this ordinance; and(B)Any felony conviction or finding of guilt less than five (5) years prior to the effective date of this ordinance other than(a)Cargo theft;(b)Smuggling;(c)The possession with intent to sell or distribute, sale,or trafficking of narcotics or any other controlled substance;(d)Dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation;(e)Felony theft under Chapter 812, Florida Statutes, or its federal counterpart; or(f)Any violent crime committed with a weapon. A "Grandfathered Applicant" for purposes of this subsection and subsection (f) means a person employed at the Seaport as of the effective date of this ordinance or who, prior to the effective date of this ordinance, was employed at the Seaport. Nothing in this section shall be construed to treat a felony conviction or a finding of guilt of a Grandfathered Applicant occurring subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance any differently than such a conviction or finding of guilt would be treated for an applicant under section (f), (h)Any applicant denied an identification card based on subsections (f) or (g) above may appeal the decision to an appeals committee, The appeals committee shall consist of five members, a member of the Miami-Dade Police Chiefs' Association, excluding the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department, on a rotating basis, each member to serve for a period of one (1) year, the Special Agent in charge of the U.S. Customs Service in Miami or a designee, a representative of the employee's employer or, at the employer's option, the association representing the employer, the Port Director or his or her designee, and a union, labor, or employee representative. The appeals committee shall determine whether the employee shall be issued an identification card based on procedures issued by the County Manager in an administrative order. (i)The Director shall issue said identification card after the applicant has met the requirements of Section 28A-5 and, if applicable, the appeals committee has determined the applicant shall be issued an identification card. Alternatively, if the appeals committee determines that the applicant shall be denied a card, the Director shall issue the applicant a letter so stating. In either event, the applicant or the Director, as the case may be, shall have available the review procedures of Section 28A-7 (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 3, 6-2-98; Ord. No. 07-57, § 2, 4-24-07) 28A-5.4. Identification card for persons. Identification cards issued by the Department shall at all times remain the property of the County. As such, the Department shall at all times have the right to confiscate or demand return of the identification card of any person who violates the provisions of this chapter and to demand the return of the identification card of all persons employed by a company violating this chapter or whose lease, permit or license agreement with the County allowing use of the port has expired or has been canceled or is terminated. The identification card shall be valid for one (1) year from the date of issuance, unless sooner canceled or surrendered. Application for or acceptance of a card or pass under Sections 28A-5.3 or 28A-5.6 or entry into the area of cargo operations or other restricted area by any person shall subject such person to the reporting requirements of Section 28A-5.4. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 3, 6-2-98) 28A-5.5. Report of changes in data on application for identification card for a person. Any holder of a personal identification card shall report in writing to the Director (i) immediately any felony arrests, convictions, or findings of guilt, and, (ii) within ten (10) days of the change any other change of data in an application for a personal identification card. Failure to report such changes within the time provided or the making of a false statement in any change in information submitted shall constitute grounds for suspending the use of the card; false statements or material omissions in the change information shall be a violation of Chapter 28A. The Director or his designee may suspend or revoke the use of the card based on any felony arrest, conviction, finding of guilt or other just cause, and may reinstate the use of the card when, in his discretion, circumstances warrant, provided, however, that such power to suspend, revoke or reinstate may not be exercised in conflict with a decision of the appeals committee as set forth in Section 28A-5.3(h). Any person whose identification card has been suspended or revoked may appeal the decision to the appeals committee set forth in Section 28A-5.3(h). (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 3, 6-2-98) 28A-5.6. Denial of identification card. An application for an identification card to enter into the area of cargo operations or other restricted area shall be denied by the Director if the applicant refuses to answer or falsely answers any question listed in Sections 28A-5.2 or 28A-5.4, or refuses to produce documents to verify statements made on the application. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-5.7. Identification card or pass for a person: Loss, transfer, alteration or possession of altered identification cards, passes or department documents. (a)A person who has lost his or her valid identification card, after identifying himself or herself to the satisfaction of the Seaport Security Division, shall be issued a new identification card after such person submits a completed application for a replacement card and, upon payment of a replacement charge as set by Administrative Order. (b)An identification card for a person shall not be transferable at any time for any purpose.(c)No person shall retain or have in his or her possession and shall promptly return to the Director or his or her designee, any card, permit, pass, badge or other means of identification issued by the Director after it has expired or when such person is no longer employed on the port or upon request by the Director or his or her designee that it be returned or when otherwise required by ordinance or otherwise. Such retention shall constitute a violation of Chapter 28A of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (d)No person shall forge, counterfeit, alter, erase, obliterate or transfer any identification card, permit, pass, lease, record, form, badge or other instrument or document issued or maintained by the County Manager or Director, pursuant to Chapter 28A. No person shall have in his possession any forged, counterfeited, altered, erased, obliterated or transferred identification card, permit, pass, lease, record, form, badge or other instrument or document issued or maintained by the County Manager or Director pursuant to Chapter 28A. No person shall have in his possession the identification card of another individual. (e)In the event that any person who has an application on file for an identification card enters an area of cargo operations or a restricted area without valid identification card or being otherwise authorized, such person may have the identification card or other authorization under Chapter 28A suspended or revoked. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 81-88, § 1, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 3, 6-2-98) Sec. 28A-6. Licensing and permits for stevedores. 28A-6.1. Miami-Dade County stevedore licenses. No person, shall act as a stevedore within Miami-Dade County, Florida, unless such person is a natural person and has first obtained a stevedore license from the Board after examination. The application for a stevedoring license shall be made by a natural person only and shall be submitted under oath to the Director for consideration by the County Manager. The County Manager shall present the application with his recommendation to the Board. No person shall employ a stevedore to perform services as such within Miami-Dade County, Florida, unless such stevedore is licensed by the Board. The issuance of a Miami-Dade County stevedore license shall not entitle the holder thereof to perform stevedoring services at or with the Port of Miami absent the issuance of a stevedore permit to the licensee or the firm by which the licensee is employed. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 00-29, § 1, 2-24-00) 28A-6.2. Port of Miami stevedore permits. No person shall act as a stevedore within the Port of Miami without first having obtained a stevedore permit from the Director. The application for a stevedoring permit for the Port of Miami shall be made by a person, including a corporation or partnership, and shall be submitted under oath to the Director. The Director shall not consider an application for a stevedore permit unless the applicant has a stevedore license or employs a natural person so licensed. The Director shall examine the qualifications of the applicant and shall issue the permit only if the criteria established in Section 28A-6 are met. No person shall employ a stevedore to perform stevedoring services within the Port of Miami unless such stevedore has a stevedoring permit and either has a stevedore license or employs a natural person so licensed. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 00-29, § 1, 2-24-00) 28A-6.3. Application for County stevedore license and Port of Miami stevedore permit. (a)Each application for a County stevedore license or Port of Miami stevedore permit shall be filed together with a personal character form furnished by the County Manager or the Director and completed and sworn to by the applicant. If the person applying for a stevedore permit is a corporation or other non-natural person, the personal character form shall be completed by the chief executive officer of the entity on behalf of the entity. (b)The applications for the County stevedoring license and the Port of Miami stevedore permit shall require the applicant to report in writing any affiliation, as an employee, partner, associate, officer, trustee, director or owner of greater than a twenty (20) percent share (directly or indirectly) of or any person, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, firm, business trust, syndicate, municipal or other governmental body which may directly or indirectly be involved with the shipment or handling of freight. If so affiliated, the application must be accompanied by a written list of such affiliations and the names and addresses of persons or members of any such corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, firm, business trust, or syndicate. The name and address of each person holding a controlling financial interest in the corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, firm, business trust, or syndicate, according to the definition of "controlling financial interest" contained in Section 2-11.1(b)(8), Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, shall be provided by the applicant. (c)All stevedore permit holders shall keep all ownership and controlling interest information current over the course of the stevedore permit. A stevedore permit holder shall notify the director in writing, with a copy to the County Manager, of any change in the identity of persons holding a "controlling financial interest" in the permit holder contemporaneously with the occurrence of such change, and state in its notice whether the underlying transaction was approved by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States ("CFIUS) pursuant to 50 U.S.co App. SS2170, if applicable, and if so, the date of such approval. The port director shall have the authority to request that a background investigation of such persons be performed by the Miami-Dade Police Department.(Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 00-29, § 1, 2-24-00; Ord. No. 07-57, § 3, 4-24-07) 28A-6.4. Procedure for obtaining County stevedore license and/or Port of Miami stevedore permit. (a)A County stevedore license application may be obtained at the office of the Director, where, upon completion, it shall be returned. The Director shall forward it to the Miami-Dade Police Department for the purpose of conducting a criminal background check. The Miami-Dade Police Department shall process the application and return it to the Director with a memorandum indicating either that the applicant has passed or failed the criminal background check. The Director shall forward his recommendations with the application to the County Manager for his consideration pursuant to Section 28A-6.1. (b)A Port of Miami stevedore permit application may be obtained from the office of the Director, where, upon completion, it shall be returned. The Director shall forward it to the Miami-Dade Police Department for the purpose of conducting a criminal background check. Following processing, the Miami-Dade Police Department shall return it to the Director with a memorandum indicating either that the applicant has passed or failed the criminal background check. The Port Director, in making his determination as to the issuance or denial of the permit, shall, in addition to the criteria set forth in subsection (c) below, make findings as to the need or lack of need for such permit. (c)The County Manager and the Seaport Director shall, after examination, issue stevedore licenses and permits, respectively, to competent and trustworthy persons in such numbers as they deem necessary for the efficient operation of the county waterfront and Port of Miami facilities. The criteria for issuance shall, in the case of a permit in addition to the needs determination contained in subsection (b) above, include, but shall not be limited to, the following: (1)The physical ability of the port, the waterways, and the Miami River facilities, respectively, to handle the vessel(s), passengers, freight or support services necessary therefor, which may be proposed by the applicant, including plans (if any) approved by the Board for proposed facilities expansion; (2)The total and peak quantities of passengers or freight;(3)The frequency of dockings;(4)Special demands upon or savings to the County;(5)The inability or refusal of license or present permit holders, respectively, to adequately serve new or existing business;(6)The financial strength of the applicant, including the ability to secure insurance, indemnity and performance bonds;(7)The pendency or entry of any proceeding, judgment or order of any court or regulatory body respecting the ability of the applicant, its affiliates, and/or its principals or operating offices to conduct a stevedoring business; (8)The experience of the applicant, its affiliates, principals or operating officers;(9)Efficient operation of the port, having due regard for the business of the port, harbor and channels; and(10)The applicant's work-related safety record over the last five (5) years, including, without limitation, the frequency or severity or both of work-related accidents, injuries or deaths; and citations, judgments, consent decrees, notices of violation or rulings issued by OSHA and other regulatory agencies. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 4, 6-2-98; Ord. No. 00-29, § 1, 2-24-00; Ord. No. 08-114, § 1, 10-7-08) 28A-6.5. Denial of County stevedore license or Port of Miami permit. (a)A County stevedore license or Port of Miami permit shall be denied to any person or entity required to submit an application in Section 28A-6.3 if the person or entity, or any officer, member, or shareholder of greater than a twenty (20) percent share thereof; (i) has been convicted of a felony within the last ten (10) years or (ii) has had a finding of guilt entered against him, her or it on a felony enumerated in subsection (i); except in the case of a Grandfathered Applicant, which shall be governed by subsection (b) below. (b)A County stevedore license or Port of Miami permit shall be denied to any Grandfathered Applicant required to submit an application in Section 28A-6.3 if the person or entity, or any officer, member, or shareholder of greater than a twenty (20) percent share thereof; (i) has been convicted of a felony within the last ten (10) years or (ii) has had a finding of guilt entered against him, her or it on a felony enumerated in subsection (i); provided, however, that any felony falling within one of the following two categories shall not be considered: (A)Any felony conviction or finding of guilt more than five (5) years prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives; and (B)Any felony conviction or finding of guilt less than five (5) years prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives other than cargo theft; smuggling; possession with intent to sell or distribute, sale, or trafficking of narcotics or other controlled substance; any violent crime committed with a weapon; fraud, misrepresentation, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, false pretenses or any other felony under Chapters 812, 817, 837, or 838, Florida Statutes, or their federal counterparts. A "Grandfathered Applicant" for purposes of this subsection and subsection (a) above means a person or firm working on the Seaport as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives or who, prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, worked on the Seaport. Nothing in this section shall be construed to treat a felony conviction or a finding of guilt of a Grandfathered Applicant occurring subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives any differently than such a conviction or finding of guilt would be treated for an applicant under section (a). (c)Any applicant for a County stevedore license or Port of Miami permit denied a license or permit based on subsections (a) or (b) above may appeal the decision to the appeals committee set forth in Section 28A-5.3(h). The Director shall issue a license or permit if the applicant otherwise qualifies and the appeals committee has determined the applicant shall be issued a license or permit. Alternatively, if the appeals committee determines that the applicant shall be denied a license or permit, the Director shall issue the applicant a letter so stating. In either event, the applicant or the Director, as the case may be, shall have available the review procedures of Section 28A-7. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 4, 6-2-98) 28A-6.6. Duration; grounds for suspension or revocation. A Miami-Dade County stevedore license or Port of Miami stevedore permit issued by the Board or Director, respectively, shall expire on January fifteenth annually. Upon expiration, a license or permit may be renewed by the Director when all the applicable requirements and procedures set forth in Sections 28A-6.1 through 28A-6.8 and Port of Miami Tariff No. 010, as amended, have been met. Failure of any person to timely file an application for renewal of a Miami-Dade County stevedore license or a Port of Miami stevedore permit shall cause the same automatically to lapse. In the event that a license or permit lapses, the holder may petition the County Manager or Director, respectively, for reinstatement of such license or permit. For good cause shown, the County Manager or Director, respectively, may reinstate such a license or permit to renewal status. A stevedore license or permit shall be subject to suspension or revocation upon a determination by the Mayor or Designee that the frequency or severity or both of work-related accidents, injuries or deaths, or citations, judgments, consent decrees, notices of violation or rulings issued by OSHA or other regulatory agencies, warrants a suspension or revocation. The Mayor or Designee shall provide notice of suspension of [or] revocation to the license or permit holder by certified mail ten (10) days before the license or permit is revoked or suspended. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 00-29, § 1, 2-24-00; Ord. No. 08-114, § 1, 10-7-08) 28A-6.7. Transfer of Miami-Dade County stevedore license or Port of Miami stevedore permit. (a)No stevedoring licenses or permits shall be transferable except as follows: When a licensee or permittee shall have a bona fide sale of the business which he is so licensed or permitted to conducted, he may obtain a transfer of such license or permit to the purchaser of the said business only if the application of the purchaser shall be approved by the Director and the Board under the same procedures provided for in Sections 28A-6.1 through 28A-6.6. (b)Immediately and automatically upon the death of a holder of a stevedore license or permit, the license or permit shall terminate; however, any insurance, bond, covenant, indemnity, guarantee or monetary obligation to Miami-Dade County arising from the stevedore business at or prior to such death shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding upon the estate, any beneficiary, devisee, heir at law, creditor or personal representative (as those terms are defined in Chapter 731, Florida Statutes, and particularly Section 731.201 [thereof]). (c)Where a holder of a Port of Miami stevedore permit is the only permit holder employed with a stevedore firm on the port, but has no "controlling interest" (as defined in Section 2-11.1(b)(8), Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County) in the firm, and the permit holder ceases to hold such permit, then the Director shall give a preference in issuing the next available permit to a natural person who is also employed by said stevedoring firm and who files an application and qualifies pursuant to Sections 28A-6.1 through 28A-6.7. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Annotation—AO 4-50 28A-6.8. Reporting of work-related accidents and injuries and regulatory actions. The holder of a stevedore license or permit shall report to the Director within three (3) days: (a)All work-related accidents, injuries and deaths that occur as part of, relate to, are caused by, or arise out of the license or permit holder's operations at the Port of Miami or in Miami-Dade County; and (b)All citations, judgments, consent decrees, notices of violation or rulings issued by OSHA or other regulatory agencies to the license or permit holder whether at the Port of Miami, in Miami-Dade County or elsewhere. (Ord. No. 08-114, § 2, 10-7-08) Sec. 28A-7. Administrative review procedure. 28A-7.1. Administrative review. Any person, including the County, aggrieved with any action or inaction by the Director and/or the Department, may file a written request with the County Manager within ten (10) days of the action or inaction. Such person shall be entitled to an appeal before a hearing examiner assigned by the County Manager or his designee from a list supplied by the American Arbitration Association. Such hearing examiners may be paid a fee for their services but shall not be deemed County officers or employees within the purview of Sections 2-10.2, 2-11.1 or otherwise. The hearing examiner shall conduct a hearing after notice and shall transmit his findings of facts, conclusions, and any recommendations together with a transcript of all evidence taken before him and all exhibits received by him, to the Manager who may sustain, reverse or modify the action at issue. Such hearings shall be conducted insofar as is practicable in accordance with the rules of civil procedure governing the procedure in the Circuit Court, except as may be provided in this Code or by rules adopted by the Board of County Commissioners. Any interested party may procure the attendance of witnesses and the production of records at such hearings in the manner provided by Section 2-50. Any person appearing before a hearing examiner under the provisions of this section has the right, at his own expense, to be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel or other qualified representative. (Counsel shall mean a member of the Florida Bar.) 28A-7.2. Reserved. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 5, 6-2-98; Ord. No. 00-29, § 2, 2-24-00; Ord. No. 01-180, § 1, 11-6-01) Annotations—AO 4-50; CAO 81-20.Sec. 28A-8. Identification. 28A-8.1. Identification cards. Failure to produce identification cards by all persons required to possess identification cards pursuant to Section 28A-5 within the port shall be cause for immediate removal from the port and shall be grounds for such further actions as may be authorized by law. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-8.2. Persons exempted. This Section 28A-8 shall not be applicable to any person who is a master, member of a ship's crew or personnel of a ship's crew, when the ship is located within the area of cargo operations or other restricted area, upon a showing of such identification as may be required by the Director or authorized Department personnel. This section is also not applicable to Law Enforcement Officers in the course of their official duties. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 6, 6-2-98) 28A-8.3. Duty to report violations. All law enforcement officers and persons required to possess identification cards pursuant to Section 28A-5 shall be under a continuing duty to promptly report the presence of (1) any unauthorized persons in a restricted area and (2) any unauthorized persons on the port without a conspicuously placed identification card. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Sec. 28A-9. Freight security. 28A-9.1. Pickup or delivery. No person shall operate or use any vehicle or motor vehicle in the area of cargo operations or other restricted area to transport freight of any kind without an identification permit. All such persons must have a written pickup or delivery order pertaining to each vehicle or motor vehicle to be loaded or unloaded in the ACO or other restricted area. The aforesaid pickup or delivery order shall be a bill of lading or an order form or on a letterhead of the firm owning the freight or of the agent of the owner of the freight. Such order must be signed by an officer of the company or person authorized to sign such an order. Said order must describe the freight, the amount to be loaded, the vessel and the bill of lading numbers and marks, if any, on the freight. Any person not having such written order shall not enter the area of cargo operations or other restricted area. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-9.2. Illegal loading. No person shall knowingly allow any freight from the port to be loaded or carried aboard a vessel unless it is properly documented and manifested as freight to be loaded on that vessel. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-9.3. Missing freight, reports. (a)Whenever any shortage or suspected shortage is discovered as to any freight, an official company representative or company supervisor in charge of the freight or its movement at the time of the discovery of such shortage shall immediately notify the Miami-Dade Police Department. Such official company representative shall be responsible for giving all pertinent information concerning such freight or movement to the investigating Law Enforcement Officer and shall render all reasonable assistance to the officer. (b)The official company representative or supervisor in charge of the cargo at the time the shortage is discovered shall, within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of discovery, complete an original and five (5) copies of the "Preliminary Cargo Security Incident Report" form available in the office of the Director. The original report shall be forwarded to the Miami-Dade Police Department. The remaining copies shall be distributed as indicated on the form. (c)All Port of Miami stevedore permit holders shall, if they have knowledge, immediately notify the Miami-Dade Police Department of the arrival or scheduled arrival of any shipment by land or water at the port of any firearms, weapons, destructive devices, explosives, or electric weapons or devices, as defined in Section 790.001, Florida Statutes, or any hazardous material, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 1802. Notification shall occur with the receipt of the freight by the stevedore with actual knowledge of its contents, or with the receipt by the stevedore of the freight manifest revealing the nature of the freight, whichever occurs first. Failure of any Port of Miami stevedore permit holder to notify the Miami-Dade Police Department as required herein shall constitute a violation of Chapter 28A of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 95-200, § 1, 11-7-95; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 7, 6-2-98) Note—Florida Statutes § 790.33, as amended, preempts and declares null and void all local ordinances, administrative regulations and rules in the field of firearms and ammunition, with limited exceptions set forth in § 790.33, as amended. 28A-9.4. Seaport department fee for use of customs vehicle inspection facility located at Port of Miami. Section 709 of the Port of Miami Tariff No. 10 is hereby amended and restated as follows: All vehicles which use the Seaport Department's Vehicle Examination Facility for the purpose of being inspected or processed by U.S. Customs, in accordance with Public Law 98-673 or otherwise, will be assessed a usage fee in the amount of $7.50 per vehicle, which shall be collected by the Seaport Department. (Ord. No. 95-200, § 1, 11-7-95; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-9.5. Allocation of portion of seaport collected user fees to auto theft task force to enhance support security operations. Two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) of every seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) collected by the seaport pursuant to section 28A-9.4 of this chapter shall be allocated to the Miami-Dade County Multi-Agency Auto Theft Task Force for purposes of enhancing security at, and interdicting the flow of stolen motor vehicles through the Port of Miami. (Ord. No. 95-200, § 1, 11-7-95; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Sec. 28A-10. Port watchmen, private security personnel.(a)All port users shall furnish their own port watchmen or security personnel when they have, within the port, freight or other personal property which is described in Section 28A-9(c). (b)All watchmen and security personnel employed by users of the port must comply with the provisions of Chapter 493, Florida Statutes. (c)Any person who intends to utilize watchmen or security personnel must give advance notification of such intended use to the Metro-Miami-Dade Police Department and the Director or his designee. (d)No person who has knowledge of the utilization of watchmen or special security personnel by any port user or person shall reveal the location or place of employment thereof within the port except to an authorized representative of the port or any State or federal law enforcement agency. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) Sec. 28A-11. Fees. The fee schedule for all licenses, permits and identification cards required by Chapter 28A shall be set and established by Port of Miami Terminal Tariff No. 010 or by an administrative order of the County Manager and approved by the Board of County Commissioners; provided, however, that such issuance fee shall not preclude the port from imposing additional fees for the privilege of doing business on the port, as established separately in the Port of Miami Terminal Tariff. (Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, 10-4-78; Ord. No. 88-116, § 3, 12-6-88; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 8, 6-2-98; Ord. No. 00-113, § 1, 9-19-00) Annotation—AO 4-50 Sec. 28A-12. Prohibited conduct. 28A-12.1. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to remain in or on any public area, place or facility at the port, in such a manner as to hinder or impede the passage of pedestrians or vehicles. 28A-12.2. (a)If, after the issuance of such permit or license, any holder of a stevedore license or other license or permit (other than a Seaport identification card, which is governed by sections 28A-5.3(f) and (g) above and section 28A-5.5 above), or any officer, stockholder of greater than a twenty (20) percent share, or member thereof, is convicted of a felony involving cargo theft; smuggling; usage, sale, possession, or trafficking of narcotics or other controlled substance; felony theft; any violent crime committed with a weapon; fraud, misrepresentation, embezzlement, bribery, forgery false pretenses or any other felony under Chapters 812, 817, 837 or 838, Florida Statutes, or their federal counterparts, or against whom a finding of guilt is entered in a previously enumerated felony case, such permit or license shall be immediately rescinded. (b)Any holder of a stevedore license or other license or permit whose license or permit has been revoked under subsection (a) above may appeal the decision to the appeals committee set forth in Section 28A-5.3(h). (Ord. No. 81-88, § 1, 7-21-81; Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 9, 6-2-98) Sec. 28A-13. Personal conduct. 28A-13.1. Handbills. (a)No person shall distribute, exhibit or post any commercial handbills, circulars, leaflets of similar material on port property.(b)No person shall throw any handbills, circulars, leaflets or similar material onto the port, port roads, rights-of-way, streets or sidewalks. (c)Except as may be permitted pursuant to subsection 28A-13.2 hereof, distribution of noncommercial handbills, circulars, leaflets or similar material may be conducted only upon port public roads, rights-of-way, streets or sidewalks, in accordance with reasonable procedures established by the Department. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.2. Solicitation of contributions and distribution of materials. (a)No person shall solicit alms or contributions of money or other articles of value, for religious, charitable or any other purpose, and receive money or other articles of value, whether in the form of cash, checks, credit or debit vouchers or any other form of negotiable instrument, in the public areas of the port. No person shall conduct or participate in any speechmaking, distributing of pamphlets, books or other written or graphic materials upon port property or within its facilities without having delivered a written notice to the Department of their intent to do so at least five (5) working days prior thereto so that the Department may be fully informed of the activity proposed and take adequate precautions to protect the public health, safety and order, and to assure the efficient and orderly use of port property for its primary purpose and function, and to assure equal opportunity for the freedom of expression of others. (b)The written notice required herein shall state:(1)The full name, address (and mailing address if different), telephone number of the person furnishing the notice, and, if an organization, the name, address and telephone number of a responsible local officer thereof and the title of such officer. (2)The purpose or subject of the proposed activity and a description of the means and methods intended to be used in conducting the same. (3)The date, hours and port facility desired for the proposed activity and the maximum number of persons proposing to participate therein at any one time, together with a form of identification card, authenticated copies of which shall be displayed on the outer clothing of each individual participating in the particular activity proposed. Such identification cards shall contain the name of the organization furnishing the notice, the legal name of the individual bearing the card, the signature and title of the official of such organization and the date issued. (c)To the extent permitted by law, the Director shall have the authority to prescribe from time to time content neutral restrictions applicable to First Amendment activities at the port. Such restrictions shall be subject to the requirements of subsection (d) and may include, but not be limited to, identifying specific locations of First Amendment zones on port property, limiting the number of persons permitted in such zones, and providing a method for resolving conflicting requests for use of First Amendment zones. (d)All restrictions prescribed by the Director shall be reasonable and appropriate, and made only after a finding by the Director that the restrictions are necessary to avoid injury, or the likelihood of injury, to persons or property, or to assure the safe and orderly use of port facilities by the public. (e)Persons having given such written notice to the Director as provided in Section 28A-13.2(a) shall be permitted to conduct their activities in or upon the public areas of the port, subject only to the restrictions identified by the Director in a written response sent to the applicant. Such response shall be sent within five (5) days of the Director's receipt of the applicant's notice. (f)If the Director notifies the applicant that their application is denied, the County Attorney's office may file an appropriate action in a court of competent jurisdiction and venue for a judicial determination as to whether the proposed activity described in the complaint may be prohibited, naming the applicant as a party defendant. (g)No persons, while engaging in the activities provided for herein, shall seek to delay a person from whom a donation or contribution is sought, or to obstruct, or unreasonably interfere with access to or egress from any cruiseline, concession or washroom facilities or premises, including, but not limited to, passenger terminals, escalators and elevators, nor shall such person in any manner assail, coerce, threaten or physically disturb any member of the public, County, cruiseline or concession employee or any other person for any reason. The activities provided for herein shall not intrude upon or take place in any location or area reserved or zoned for a particular use, including, but not limited to, washrooms, offices, seating areas, baggage claim areas, ticketing areas, restaurants, lounges, concessions, areas devoted to business enterprises and passenger concourses and gate holding areas. No person shall engage in the activity hereunder without first identifying the organization he or she represents in connection with such prospective donation. (h)No person, while engaging in the activities provided for herein, shall affix any matter, written or graphic, to any port structure or facility, nor shall any such matter be left unattended at any location at the port except in baggage lockers for a period not exceeding twenty-four (24) hours upon payment of the prevailing fee. (i)The Director is empowered to wholly or partially restrict the activities provided for herein in the event of emergencies, including but not limited to, strikes affecting the operation of the port, shipping or traffic accidents, riots or civil commotion, power failures, hurricanes, or other conditions tending to disrupt the normal operation of the port. (j)All persons engaged in activities permitted under Section 28A-13.2 of the Code shall wear and display identification, approved by the Department, identifying such person and the organization such person represents. In no case shall any person in any activity under this section attempt to identify himself or herself as a representative of the County of the Department. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.3. Preservation of property. No person shall: (a)Destroy, injure, deface, disturb or tamper with any building, sign, equipment, fixture, marker or any other structure or property on the port; (b)Injure, deface, remove, destroy or disturb the trees, flowers, shrubs, or other vegetation on the port;(c)Walk, drive or park on a posted lawn or seeded area of the port; or(d)Willfully abandon any personal property on the port. Any person who causes damage to port property shall be held liable for such damage. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.4. Entry to restricted areas. No person shall enter any restricted area of a port except; (a)Persons who enter in accordance with security clearance pursuant to the security program established or authorized by the Department; or (b)Persons assigned duties on a restricted area of the port bearing proper identification as approved and required herein; or(c)Persons who are employees or authorized representatives of the Department or other Federal, State or local government department or agency, having proper business thereon and bearing proper identification as approved and required herein. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.5. Coin- and currency-operated machines. No person shall use or attempt to use a coin- or currency-operated machine without first depositing the coins or currency required by the instructions on the machine. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.6. Use and enjoyment of port premises. (a) Not to be obstructed. Save and except in the area of cargo operations and in restricted areas, no person(s) singly or in association with others shall by his or their conduct or by congregating with others seek to obstruct, delay or unreasonably interfere with any other person or persons use and enjoyment of the port and its facilities or any part thereof, or seek to obstruct, delay, or unreasonably interfere with the passage of any other person or persons from place to place, or through entrances, exits or passageways on the port. (b) Vehicles. No person shall use, ride or drive a unicycle, a go-cart, roller skates, roller blades, skateboards or similar vehicle on or at the port, and no person shall drive a motor vehicle or ride a bicycle upon any area of the port made available to the public other than on roads, walks, or rights-of-way provided for such purpose. (c)(i)No person, unless authorized by lease, operational directive, or otherwise, shall use, operate, drive or ride a boat, canoe, jet-skis, water scooter or other water vehicle whether motorized or not within one hundred (100) feet of any Seaport bulkhead line, within two hundred (200) feet of any Seaport berthing area occupied by a vessel, within five hundred (500) feet of the bow and one hundred (100) feet of the port side, starboard side and stern of a commercial cruise ship, tanker, barge, ferry or freighter that is underway and making way upon the channels of the Port of Miami, or in any manner that constitutes a hazard to safe navigation. Excluded from this restriction are water vehicles used by a governmental agency for official purposes in such waterway or body of water. (ii)Any person, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, association or other business entity which is convicted of violating this sub-section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred ($500) dollars or by imprisonment in the County jail for not more than thirty (30) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. (iii)This sub-section shall be enforced by the Miami-Dade Police Department and by the police forces with jurisdiction over the Seaport. (d)No person, singly or in association with others, shall play any electronic or musical instrument, machine, or other device in any public area of any cruise terminal building or on the cruise terminal curbside in such a manner or so loudly as to prevent the quiet enjoyment of others or to cause others not to be able to reasonably hear private conversations and public address announcements, except as part of a musical performance authorized in writing by the Department. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 00-75, § 1, 6-6-00) 28A-13.7. Picketing. (a)Lawful picketing, marching or demonstrations on the port may be conducted only upon port public roads, rights-of-way, streets or sidewalks, in accordance with reasonable procedures established by the Department. (b)It shall be unlawful to picket, march or demonstrate within a restricted area or cruise terminal building at the Seaport of Miami. (c) Chapter 28A shall not be construed to limit in any way any rights granted or derived from any other statute or any law guaranteeing employees the right to organize in labor organizations, bargain collectively themselves or through labor organizations or other representatives of their choice. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 10, 6-2-98) 28A-13.8. Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in or on any area, place or facility at the port, unless such person has a bona fide purpose for being in such area, place or facility, directly related to the normal and regular usage of such area, place or facility, in such a manner as to hinder or impede the orderly passage in or through or the normal or customary use of such area, place or facility by persons or vehicles entitled to such passage or use. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.9. Sanitation. (a)No person shall dispose of garbage, papers, refuse or other forms of trash, including cigarettes, cigars and matches, except in receptacles provided for such purpose. (b)No person shall dump or dispose of any fill, building material or any other material on the port, except with prior approval of the Department and in such areas and under such conditions as are specifically designated. (c)No person shall use a comfort station or rest room, toilet or lavatory facility other than in a clean and sanitary manner.(d)No person shall deposit, blow or spread any bodily discharge on the ground or pavement anywhere on the port or on any floor, wall, partition, furniture, or any other part of a public comfort station, terminal building, or other building on the port, other than directly into a fixture provided for that purpose. (e)No person shall place any foreign object in any plumbing fixture of a comfort station, terminal building, or other building on the port. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.10. Intoxication. (a)No person shall drink any intoxicating liquors upon any portion of the port open to the public, except in special service lounges or club rooms properly designated by the Director or by lease for on-premises liquor consumption. (b)No person under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs shall operate any motor vehicle on the port. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.11. Drugs. No person, other than a duly qualified physician, a certified emergency medical technician (under the direction of a duly qualified physician or as provided by law), a registered nurse, or a duly qualified pharmacist shall, while on the port, prescribe, dispense, give away, or administer any controlled substance as defined from time to time by State or Federal law to another or have such a drug in his possession, with intent to prescribe, dispense, sell, give away, or administer it to another. Such persons shall not be authorized to offer to sell or to sell such drugs except pursuant to a permit, license or agreement issued by the County. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.12. Animals. (a)No person, other than a person who is blind, visually impaired or otherwise disabled with a seeing eye or other specially trained dog, or who is accompanied by a trained dog used for law enforcement purposes under the control of an authorized law enforcement officer, shall enter the cruise terminal building with a domestic animal, unless such animal is to be or has been transported by sea and is kept restrained by a leash or otherwise confined so as to be completely under control. (b)No person except law enforcement personnel using a dog trained for law enforcement purposes, shall enter any part of the port, with a domestic animal, unless such animal is kept restrained by a leash or is so confined as to be completely under control, whether or not such animal is to be or has been transported by sea travel. No person shall bring, carry or deliver any wild animal under his control or custody into the cruise terminal buildings of the port, without having first obtained a permit from the Department. (c)Except for animals that are to be or have been transported by sea and are properly confined for sea travel, no person shall permit any wild animal under his control or custody to enter the port. (d)No person other than in the conduct of an official act shall hunt, pursue, trap, catch, injure, or kill any animal on the port. (e)No person except law enforcement personnel shall ride horseback on the port without prior authorization of the Department.(f)No person shall permit, either willfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, any animal to urinate or defecate upon the sidewalks of the port or upon the floor of the terminal building or any other building used in common by the public. (g)No person shall feed or do any other act to encourage the congregation of birds or other animals on or in the vicinity of the port. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97; Ord. No. 98-78, § 10, 6-2-98) 28A-13.13. Lost articles. Any person finding lost articles at the port shall immediately deposit them with an authorized representative of the Department. Articles unclaimed by their proper owner within three (3) months thereafter shall, upon request, be turned over to the finder or otherwise be lawfully disposed of, in accordance with applicable law or operational directive. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to deny the right of scheduled shipping or other port tenants to maintain "lost and found" services for property of their passengers, customers, invitees or employees as permitted by law. Articles to which the owner or finder is not entitled to lawful possession shall be forfeited to the Department for disposal in accordance with the provisions of applicable law or County administrative order. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.14. False reports or threats. No person shall make any threat involving shipping or any facilities or operations at or on the port or false report regarding the conduct of operations at or use of the port. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97) 28A-13.15. Forgery and counterfeit. No person shall make, possess, use, offer for sale, sell, barter, exchange, pass or deliver any forged, counterfeit, or falsely altered pass, permit, identification badge, certificate, placard, sign or other authorization purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the Department, nor shall any information electronically or magnetically encoded thereon be knowingly altered or erased. (Ord. No. 97-161, § 1, 9-23-97)

,Chapter 29 TAXATION [1]



,Chapter 30 TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES [1]



,Chapter 30A URBAN RENEWAL [1]



,Chapter 30B TRANSIT AGENCY RULES AND REGULATIONS [1]

Sec. 30B-1. Legislative intent.Sec. 30B-2. Definitions.Sec. 30B-3. Applicability and penalties.Sec. 30B-4. Personal activities.Sec. 30B-5. Commercial activities.Sec. 30B-6. Parking.Sec. 30B-7. Personal conduct; solicitation of contributions; and distribution of materials.Sec. 30B-1. Legislative intent. It is the intent of the County Commission by enacting this chapter to accomplish the following purposes for the Metro-Dade Transit Agency, the Metrorail, Metromover and Metrobus systems: (a)Enable the safe, secure and efficient operation of public mass transit.(b)Establish rules and regulations governing transit security and operations.(c)Preserve the safety, security and rights of the general public using the transit system. (Ord. No. 84-74, § 1, 7-17-84) Sec. 30B-2. Definitions.(1) General. Words not specifically defined in this section which relate to transit practices, processes and equipment shall be construed according to their general usage in the transit industry. (2) Definitions. (a)"Commission" or "Board" shall mean the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County, Florida.(b)"County" shall mean Dade County, Florida.(c)"County Manager" shall mean the County Manager as appointed by the Commission.(d)"Metro-Dade Transit Agency" or "MDTA" shall mean the agency designated by the County Manager to operate public mass transportation within the county. (e)"Executive Director" shall mean that person appointed by the County Manager carrying the title Director of the Metro-Dade Transit Agency or his duly authorized representatives. (f)"Transit system" shall mean all land, facilities, and improvements utilized by Dade County for the provision of public mass transportation services by Metrorail, Metrobus, and Metromover including but not limited to yard and shop, Metrorail and Metromover stations and parking areas, Metrorail guideway including the piers and girders and linear park located thereunder, Metromover guideway and supporting structures, traction power substations, operation and maintenance facilities and buildings, mass transit vehicles, and land located within the "Rapid Transit Zone" (as defined in Section 33C-2 of this Code) except for those rights and areas of said Zone which are leased to private entities for joint development. (g)"Mass transit vehicle" shall mean Metrobus buses, Metrorail cars, Metromover vehicles operated by or for the County for use by the public. For the purposes of this chapter, private buses, limousines, jitneys and taxicabs shall not be deemed mass transit vehicles. (h)"Metrorail" shall mean the twenty and five-tenth-mile fixed guideway heavy rail system, and future extensions thereof.(i)"Metromover" shall mean the one and nine-tenth-mile fixed guideway people mover system, and future extensions thereof.(j)"Metrobus" shall mean all facilities and equipment of the County bus system.(k)"Abandon" shall mean to forsake, desert, give up and surrender one's claim or right.(l)"Authorized" shall mean acting under or pursuant to a written contract, permit authorization or other evidence of right issued by the Board, the County Manager, or the Executive Director. (m)"Person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company association, joint stock association, or body politic; and includes any trustee, receiver, committee, assignee or other representative or employee thereof. (n)"Solicit" or "solicitation" shall mean the request directly or indirectly for money or other thing of value.(o)"State" shall mean the State of Florida.(p)"Restricted area" shall mean any area of the transit system posted to prohibit entry or to limit entry or access to specific authorized persons. (q)"Rules and regulations" shall mean the Metro-Dade Transit Agency rules and regulations, as codified in Chapter 30B, Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. (r)"Park" shall mean to put or leave or let a motor vehicle stand or stop in any location whether the operator thereof leaves or remains in such vehicle when such standing or stopping is not required by traffic controls or conditions beyond the control of the operator. (s)"Weapon" shall mean any weapon, firearm, explosive, tear gas gun or chemical weapon or device, as those terms are defined by Section 790.00, Florida Statutes. (t)"Fireworks" shall mean fireworks as defined by Section 791.01, Florida Statutes.(u)"Explosive" shall mean explosive as defined by Section 790.001, Florida Statutes.(v)"Paid area" shall mean that portion of a Metrorail or Metromover station beyond the faregate area where only fare-paying passengers are allowed. (Ord. No. 84-67, § 1, 7-17-84) Sec. 30B-3. Applicability and penalties.(1) Applicability. This chapter applies to all who utilize the transit system. (2) Penalties. (a)Any person violating subsections (2), (5), (6), (7), (9), (10), (11) and (22) of Section 30B-4 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County shall, upon being warned by a Police Officer of Metropolitan Dade County, cease the prohibited activity. If the person continues the prohibited activity after such warning, the police officer may direct the individual to leave the train or to leave the premises of the station. Any individual who does not leave as directed, shall be charged with trespassing and subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days in the County Jail, or both. In lieu of any fine or penalty, the court may order any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter to participate in transit public service for a minimum of ten (10) hours. Such service may include graffiti removal, cleaning of transit vehicles, and maintenance of transit right-of-way. (b)For violations of subsections (1), (3), (4), (8), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17), (18), (19), (20), (21), and (23) of Section 30B-4 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County and for any other provision of this chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days in the County Jail, or both. In lieu of any fine or penalty, the court may order any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter to participate in transit public service for a minimum of ten (10) hours. Such service may include graffiti removal, cleaning of transit vehicles, and maintenance of transit right-of-way. (c)The County may institute a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover compensatory damages, including reasonable costs and expenses, for any damage caused to the transit system. (d)For violations other than those specified in subsection (a) above, the County may institute a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to impose and recover a civil penalty for each violation in an amount of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per offense. (e)The judicial remedies in this section shall be independent and cumulative for the violations to which they are applicable hereunder. (Ord. No. 84-67, § 1, 7-17-84; Ord. No. 87-76, § 1, 11-3-87) Sec. 30B-4. Personal activities.(1) Impeding or hindering operators of mass transit vehicles. On any mass transit vehicle operated solely within the boundaries of Dade County, it shall be unlawful for any person to impede or hinder the operator of said mass transit vehicle in the performance of his or her duties. No person shall, on any mass transit vehicle operated solely within the boundaries of Dade County, interfere with or disturb the operator of said mass transit vehicle by drinking alcoholic beverages, playing a radio or other instrument, unless said radio or other instrument is connected to an earphone; carry any animals or flammable liquids; display any weapons or firearms; use abusive, insulting or obscene language or gestures with the intent to distract the operator; Board through a rear exit; or refuse to pay the established fare. Note—Florida Statutes § 790.33, as amended, preempts and declares null and void all local ordinances, administrative regulations and rules in the field of firearms and ammunition, with limited exceptions set forth in § 790.33, as amended. (2) Trespassing. It shall be unlawful to trespass on the transit system or to enter any restricted area. (3) Preservation of property. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to deface, destroy, disfigure, injure, blemish, or vandalize any part of the transit system. Prohibited activities shall include, but not be limited to: (a)The unauthorized marking of any part of the transit system with spray paint and other marking substances;(b)The marking of any part of the transit system with graffiti;(c)The cutting or mutilating of seats on mass transit vehicles; and(d)The injuring or destruction of any tree, plant or other vegetation located within the transit system.(4) Obstruction of guideways or tracks. It shall be unlawful to place or cause to be placed any obstruction on Metrorail or Metromover guideways or tracks. (5) Smoking or spitting. [2] It shall be unlawful for passengers to smoke or spit within any mass transit vehicle or any paid area of a Metrorail or Metromover station. (6) Drinking or eating. It shall be unlawful to eat or drink, or carry an open container of food or beverage, on any mass transit vehicle or station platform. (7) Sanitation. It shall be unlawful to dispose of garbage, papers, refuse or other forms of trash within the transit system except in receptacles provided for such purpose. No person shall dump or dispose of any material [except as authorized herein]. No person shall use a comfort station or rest room, toilet or lavatory facility other than in a clean and sanitary manner. No person shall deposit, blow or spread any bodily discharge on any part of the transit system. No person shall place any foreign object in any plumbing fixture. (8) Abandonment. It shall be unlawful to abandon any vehicle or personal property on any part of the transit system. (9) Radio playing. It shall be unlawful while on any mass transit vehicle or facility to play any radio, cassette player, or other electronic audio or video playback device or musical instrument unless the sound produced by said device or instrument is played solely through earphones. Said devices and instruments may be played along the linear park underneath the Metrorail guideway provided same is not annoying or a nuisance. (10) Insulting or obscene language. It shall be unlawful to use any insulting or obscene language on any part of the transit system. (11) Animals. With the exception of seeing-eye dogs, it shall be unlawful to bring, carry, or transport any animal on a mass transit vehicle or the paid area of any transit system unless said animal is properly boxed or caged for transport. Animals may be permitted to use the linear park underneath the Metrorail guideway provided that they do no damage and cause no nuisance or inconvenience. (12) False reports or threats. It shall be unlawful to make a false report of conduct on, the operation of, or a threat concerning any portion of the transit system. (13) Forgery and counterfeit. It shall be unlawful to make, possess, use, offer for sale, sell, barter, exchange, pass, or deliver any forged, counterfeit or falsely altered pass, permit, farecard, transfer, identification card, certificate or other authorization purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the Transit Agency. (14) Explosives and fireworks. It shall be unlawful to carry, transport or ignite any explosive, fireworks, acid, or flammable liquid anywhere on the transit system. (15) Refusal to pay fare. It shall be unlawful to refuse to pay the established fare, evade payment of fare, or enter through rear doors or emergency exits of any mass transit vehicle, guideway or facility. (16) Transfers. It shall be unlawful to alter, abuse or give to another person any transfer or other fare medium, unless expressly authorized by the terms of said transfer or other fare medium. (17) Train attendant cab. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to enter the train attendant cab of any Metrorail vehicle. (18) Safety lines. It shall be unlawful for any individual to cross a safety line on a Metrorail or Metromover station platform. (19) Equipment. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized individual to operate any transit system equipment located within the transit system except: (a)Where such equipment is designed for use by the public; or(b)When necessary in an emergency situation.(20) Mass transit vehicle doors. It shall be unlawful to interfere with the operation of mass transit vehicle doors. (21) Passage between Metrorail cars. It shall be unlawful to pass from one (1) Metrorail car to another through the end door of the car, except in an emergency situation. (22) Bicycles. It shall be unlawful to bring or operate a bicycle on any mass transit vehicle or within the paid area of any Metrorail or Metromover station, except as allowed by MDTA rule and procedures. Bicycles may only be parked in designated areas on the transit system. Bicycles shall not be locked or chained to transit facilities except as allowed by MDTA rules and procedures. (23) Mopeds or motorized vehicles. No moped or other motorized vehicle shall be operated within the linear park underneath the Metrorail system and guideway. (Ord. No. 84-67, § 1, 7-17-84; Ord. No. 87-76, § 2, 11-3-87; Ord. No. 02-170, § 1, 9-24-02) Sec. 30B-5. Commercial activities.(1) Soliciting or carrying on business. No person, unless duly authorized in writing by MDTA, shall anywhere on the transit system: (a)Engage in any business or commercial activity;(b)Sell, or offer for sale, any merchandise or service;(c)Solicit any business or trade;(d)Sing, dance or play any musical instrument.(2) Commercial photography or recording. No person, unless authorized in writing by MDTA or the County Manager when appropriate under Section 2-11.14 of this Code, shall take still, motion, or sound motion pictures or sound records or recordings of voices or otherwise for commercial, training or educational purposes, other than news coverage anywhere in the transit system. (3) Building construction and improvements. No person, unless authorized in writing by MDTA, shall construct or cause to be constructed any buildings or structures, including signs, utility connection, or any improvements, modifications, or additions to any such buildings or structures, or any pavings, excavations, removal of oil or fill material anywhere on the transit system. (4) Advertising. No person, unless authorized in writing by MDTA, shall post or distribute commercial signs, advertisements, literature, circulars, pictures, sketches, drawings, handbills, or any other form of printed or written commercial matter or material anywhere within the transit system. (5) Vending in public areas. No person shall vend services, including but not limited to amusements and food and beverages, anywhere within the transit system, unless authorized in writing by MDTA. (6) Signs. No person unless authorized in writing by MDTA, shall construct or install any sign or device anywhere on the transit system. (Ord. No. 84-67, § 1, 7-17-84) Sec. 30B-6. Parking.(1) Transit system parking facilities. (a)No person shall park or leave a vehicle unattended in any transit system parking facility for any purpose other than for a public transit related use, except as may be authorized in writing by the Director of MDTA. No person shall enter or use a transit system parking facility or parking space at such facility contrary to its posted or restricted use. Except when authorized in writing by MDTA, it shall be unlawful for any truck tractor, trailer or semi-trailer as defined in Section 316.003, Florida Statutes, as the same may be amended from time to time, to be parked or left in any transit system parking facility beyond one hour after such facility closes. (b)No person shall park or leave a vehicle unattended in any transit system parking facility or parking space without having positioned said vehicle wholly within a single designated stall or area in such a manner as not to obstruct the proper movement of other vehicles in the parking facility or utilization by other vehicles of driveways or adjacent parking spaces. All vehicles shall park head-in only. Only compact cars shall park in spaces marked "compact cars only." Whenever any police officer finds an unauthorized vehicle parked on transit right-of-way or in other than a marked space, such officer is authorized to provide for removal of the vehicle to the nearest storage lot, garage or other place of safety, cost of such removal to be a lien against the motor vehicle. No vehicle which requires more than one parking space, as defined in Section 33-122 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, may be parked or left unattended in any transit system parking facility without the express written consent of MDTA. (c)No person shall park or leave a vehicle unattended in any transit system parking facility without having properly secured a required parking ticket or having paid the required parking fee, if any. The parking ticket shall be placed face up on the dashboard inside the vehicle. A monthly decal shall be appropriately placed inside the vehicle on the lower left rear windshield. MDTA will establish one of the following methods for payment at each transit system parking facility: 1.Electronic Pay/Ticket Issued: Purchase parking ticket at electronic parking ticket machine inside the transit station area, receive parking ticket and surrender parking ticket at exit or pay a parking fee as established by Dade County Ordinance 86-37, and as may be amended from time to time. Failure to display either a parking ticket or a monthly parking permit, or to pay the applicable parking fee before exiting a parking facility utilizing this parking fee collection method shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be subject to the penalties provided in Section 30B-6(3) hereunder. 2.Pay In/Free Out: Pay parking fee to cashier at manned booth upon entrance to parking lot, exit free. Failure to pay the parking fee upon entering the parking facility shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be subject to the penalties provided in Section 30B-6(3) hereunder. 3.Manual Deposit Box: Park in numbered space, pay inside the transit station area at parking deposit box with numbered slot which corresponds to the numbered parking space. Any vehicle parked in a numbered space for which parking fee payment has not been deposited in the corresponding numbered deposit slot inside the station, shall be in violation of this section and shall be subject to the penalties provided in Section 30B-6(3) hereunder. 4.Electronic Deposit Box: Park in numbered space, pay at electronic deposit box inside the transit station area and enter corresponding parking space number. Electronic deposit box records the fee paid for the individual parking space and issues a receipt. Whenever a vehicle is parked in a numbered space for which payment has not been registered in the electronic deposit machine, said vehicle shall be in violation of this section and shall be subject to the penalties provided in Section 30B-6(3) hereunder. 5.Monthly Parking Permit: Parking permit purchased in advance of parking and displayed from the rearview mirror of parked vehicle. This method of parking payment shall be accepted at all transit system parking facilities. (d)No person, shall remove or attempt to remove any vehicle from a transit system public parking facility without paying the required parking charge. (e)Except when authorized by MDTA or the parking facility operator, no person shall remove a parking ticket from a transit system public parking facility parking ticket dispensing machine, other than as an operator of a vehicle entering such facility. (f)It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a parking ticket from, or to otherwise operate, a transit system parking facility parking ticket dispensing machine, for the purpose of avoiding or enabling another person to avoid payment of a parking fee. (2) Employee parking areas and facilities. No person shall utilize an employee parking area or facility except as authorized by MDTA. (3) Parking fines. Violations of this section shall be punishable by the fine indicated below: (4) Enforcement. The enforcement of this section is vested in the Metro-Dade Police Department throughout Dade County in both the incorporated and the unincorporated areas thereof, in the Police Department of each municipality as to those Metrorail public parking facilities which are located in that municipality, and in parking enforcement specialists who are employed in accordance with Section 316.640, Florida Statutes. (5) Form of parking citations. Prosecution for violation of this section shall be by a uniform traffic ticket in the form provided by Section 30-206 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 84-67, § 1, 7-17-84; Ord. No. 89-82, §§ 1, 2, 9-12-89) Sec. 30B-7. Personal conduct; solicitation of contributions; and distribution of materials.(1)No person shall solicit alms or contributions of money or other articles of value for religious, charitable or any other purpose, or conduct or participate in any speech-making, distributing of pamphlets, books or other written or graphic materials anywhere on the transit system without having delivered a written notice to the Executive Director, or his designee, of the intent to do so at least seven (7) days prior thereto so that the County may be fully informed of the activity proposed and take adequate precautions to protect the public health, safety, welfare and order, to assure the efficient and orderly use of the transit system for its primary purpose and function, and to assure appropriate opportunity for the freedom of expression to others. (2)The written notice required herein shall state:(a)The full name, address (and mailing address if different), telephone number of the person furnishing the notice, and, if an organization, the name, address and telephone number of a responsible local officer thereof and the title of such officer. (b)The purpose or subject of the proposed activity and a description of the means and methods intended to be used in conducting the same. If the proposed activity includes the solicitation of alms, donations or contributions of money or of other articles of value, the notice shall contain the verified statement of a responsible local officer of the organization furnishing the notice that it is a tax-exempt organization under existing federal laws and regulations and that donations and contributions made to such organization may lawfully be included as charitable deductions on a donor's federal income tax return for the year in which made. (c)The date, hours and location desired for the proposed activity and the maximum number of persons proposing to participate therein at any one time or period of time, together with a form of identification card, authenticated copies of which shall be displayed on the outer clothing of each individual participating in the particular activity proposed. Such identification cards shall contain the name of the organization furnishing the notice, the legal name of the individual bearing the card, the signature and title of the official of such organization and the date issued. (3)Persons having given such written notice shall be permitted to conduct their activities in or on the transit system with the number of persons, at the times, for the purpose, in the manner, and with the identification card, all as set forth in their respective written notices subject only to such restrictions as may be prescribed from time to time by the Executive Director or his designee; provided, however, that any such restrictions shall be reasonable and appropriate and shall be prescribed only after a finding by the County that the restrictions are necessary to avoid injury, or the likelihood of injury, to persons or property, or to assure the safe and orderly use of the transit system by the public, and such restrictions shall be applied equally and without discrimination as to all persons who have given such written notice. A copy of any such restrictions and any explanatory diagrammatic attachments shall be furnished those persons affected. (4)No person, while engaging in the activities provided for herein, shall prevent or interfere with access to or egress from busstops or shelters, faregates, fare card machines, washroom facilities, stairways, escalators, or elevators, nor shall such person in any manner assail, coerce, threaten or physically disturb any member of the public, any County employee, or any other person for any reason, nor shall such activity prevent, impede, interfere with, hamper or curtail the conduct of ordinary business on the transit system. The activities provided for herein shall not intrude upon or take place in any location or area reserved or zoned for a particular use including, but not limited to, washrooms, offices, reception areas, Metrorail and Metromover station platforms, and within any mass transit vehicle. No individual engaged in the proposed activity shall solicit any donation or engage a member of the public as a prospective donee without first identifying the organization he or she represents in connection with such prospective donation. (5)No person, while engaging in the activities provided for herein, shall affix any matter, written or graphic, to any transit system structure or facility, nor shall any such matter be left unattended at any location anywhere within the transit system. (6)No person, while engaging in the activities provided for herein, shall sell any material whatsoever to a member of the public, nor shall such person tender or transfer any material whatsoever to a member of the public in return for a fixed sum of money or other specific thing of value agreed upon in advance of such tender or transfer, nor shall such person after the transfer of such material require or demand any sum of money or other specific thing of value including the item transferred, from any member of the public. (7)The Executive Director or his designee is empowered to restrict, wholly or partially, the activities provided for herein in the event of emergencies, including but not limited to, strikes, accidents, riots, civil disturbances, power failures, hurricanes, or other conditions tending to disrupt the normal operation of the transit system. (Ord. No. 84-67, § 1, 7-17-84)

,Chapter 31 VEHICLES FOR HIRE [1]



,Chapter 32 WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS [1]



,Chapter 32A RESERVED [1]



,Chapter 32B RESERVED [1]



,Chapter 33 ZONING [1]



,Chapter 33A DEVELOPMENTS IN INCORPORATED AREAS CREATING COUNTY IMPACT [1]

Sec. 33A-1. Incorporation of findings and purpose by reference.Sec. 33A-2. Procedure for review of applications for zoning action.Sec. 33A-3. Individual municipalities may provide higher standards.Sec. 33A-4. Scope.Sec. 33A-5. Definitions.Sec. 33A-1. Incorporation of findings and purpose by reference. The matters set forth above [see editor's note for this chapter] are hereby incorporated by reference and are made a part of this chapter. (Ord. No. 75-52, § 1, 7-2-75) Sec. 33A-2. Procedure for review of applications for zoning action.(a)If an application for municipal zoning action filed in any incorporated area in Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, would allow, if granted, a development of County impact, as indicated herein, the application shall contain, in addition to such other matters as may be required, a statement that the applicant proposed to undertake a development of County impact within the incorporated area. The application for such a municipal zoning action shall be accompanied by a completed development impact statement in the same manner and form as required for developments in the unincorporated area of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. If any applicant is in doubt as to whether his proposed development would be a development of County impact, he may request a determination from the Metropolitan Miami-Dade County Developmental Impact Committee. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of such request, the chairman, on behalf of the Developmental Impact Committee, shall issue a letter of interpretation with respect to the proposed development. No developmental impact statement shall be required if a developmental impact statement pertaining to the same property had been filed within one (1) year preceding the filing date of the most recent application. This chapter shall not apply if the development activity would constitute a "development of regional impact" as defined by Chapter 380, Florida Statutes, 1972, for which a development order is required, or if the application seeks only site or plot use plan approval which does not involve district boundary changes, or if the application is located entirely within the boundaries of the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone. (b)The appropriate municipal government shall give notice and hold a hearing on the application as provided by its own local zoning procedures and shall comply with the following additional requirements: (1)The notice of hearing shall state that the proposed municipal zoning action would result, if granted, in a development of County impact. (2)The notice shall be given by registered mail to the Clerk of the County Commission and the County Manager; provided further, that the developmental impact statement shall be transmitted with the said notice. (3)No final municipal zoning action shall be taken by the appropriate municipal authority until the requirements of subsections (c) and (d) of this section are met. (c)Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice and the developmental impact statement as required in subsections (a) and (b), the Developmental Impact Committee shall prepare and submit to the Board of County Commissioners a report and recommendations on the County impact of the proposed application for municipal zoning action and development. Copies of the report and recommendations shall be sent by registered mail to the municipal clerk and mayor and to the applicant. In preparing its report and recommendations, the Developmental Impact Committee shall consult with appropriate municipal officials; shall consider the criteria set forth in Chapter 33, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, for review of developments of County impact in the unincorporated areas of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County; and shall otherwise follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 33 of the Code; provided, however, that immediately upon issuance of the report and recommendations, the Chairman shall notify the Miami-Dade County Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning whose duty it shall then be to place the matter before the Board of County Commissioners for consideration and review following a public hearing as soon as it is reasonably practical. The public hearing shall be held upon at least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such hearing published in a newspaper of general circulation in Miami-Dade County, which publication shall include the time and place of hearing before the Board of County Commissioners. (d)Following the public hearing, the Board of County Commissioners shall adopt and thereafter submit to the appropriate municipal authority its report and recommendations on the County impact of the proposed application. In adopting its report and recommendations, the Board of County Commissioners shall consider, where applicable, among other factors relating to the general welfare, whether and the extent to which: (1)The requested municipal zoning action permitting the proposed development would unreasonably interfere with or conform to the achievement of the objectives of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan for Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, as applied to the area; (2)The development permitted by the application, if granted, will have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the environmental and natural resources of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, including consideration of the means and estimated cost necessary to minimize the adverse impacts; the extent to which alternatives to alleviate adverse impacts may have a substantial impact on the natural and human environment; and whether any irreversible or irretrievable commitment of natural resources will occur as a result of the proposed development; (3)The development permitted by the application, if granted, will have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the economy of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida; (4)The development permitted by the application, if granted, will efficiently use or unduly burden water, sewer, solid waste disposal, recreation, education or other necessary public facilities which have been constructed or planned and budgeted for construction; (5)The development permitted by the application, if granted, will efficiently use or unduly burden or affect public transportation facilities, including mass transit, roads, streets and highways which have been constructed or planned and budgeted for construction; (6)The development complies or does not comply with such other criteria for determining County impact as the Board of County Commissioners shall deem appropriate through the approval and promulgation of rules and regulations further implementing the provisions of this chapter. (e)In considering whether the application for municipal zoning actions should be finally approved, or denied, the appropriate municipal government shall consider whether, and the extent to which, the development is consistent with the report and recommendations as provided by the Board of County Commissioners submitted pursuant to subsection (d) of this section. If the municipality has not acted in accord with the report and recommendations as provided by the Board of County Commissioners, the municipality shall state the reason(s) for the deviation in report form when such action is rendered and this report shall be forthwith transmitted to the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners and the County Manager. (f)Whenever any municipal authority renders or issues any ordinance, resolution or order in regard to any development of County impact, a copy of such ordinance, resolution or order shall be forthwith submitted to the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners and the County Manager. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners to place the matter before the Board of County Commissioners for consideration and review following a public hearing as soon as is reasonably practical. At the public hearing, the Board of County Commissioners shall consider whether, and the extent to which, the municipal authority has departed from the requirements of subsection (e) of this section. Where it appears that the action of the municipal authority is substantially contrary to the Commission's recommendations and report, the Board of County Commissioners, upon majority vote, may authorize the County Attorney to file appropriate judicial proceedings in the Circuit Court for the Eleventh Judicial Circuit in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida, to contest the action of the municipal authority as having an adverse developmental impact on the County; provided, however, that where public hearing and action by the Board of County Commissioners cannot be held or undertaken within thirty (30) days after the ordinance, resolution or order is rendered, the County Manager is hereby delegated authority to instruct the County Attorney to file appropriate legal action as above set forth where it appears that the action of the municipal authority is substantially contrary to the recommendations of the Board of County Commissioners made pursuant to subsection (d) of this section. Thereafter, the matter shall be set before the Board of County Commissioners as aforesaid to determine if the action of the County Manager should be ratified or if the judicial proceeding undertaken by the County Attorney should be voluntarily dismissed. (Ord. No. 75-52, § 2, 7-2-75; Ord. No. 83-115, § 1, 12-6-83; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 22, 9-3-98) Sec. 33A-3. Individual municipalities may provide higher standards. Each municipality may provide for higher standards or criteria for review of developments of County impact than those contained in this chapter or Chapter 33, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 75-52, § 3, 7-2-75) Sec. 33A-4. Scope. The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to have County-wide effect. (Ord. No. 75-52, § 4, 7-2-75) Sec. 33A-5. Definitions. It is expressly declared that the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as provided in Chapter 33, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida, including: (a) Comprehensive Development Master Plan: The words "Comprehensive Development Master Plan" shall mean and refer to the Comprehensive Development Master Plan for Metropolitan Miami-Dade County adopted by the Board of County Commissioners by Ordinance No. 75-22 on March 31, 1975, or as amended. (b) Conforms to the Comprehensive Development Master Plan: The words "conforms to the Comprehensive Development Master Plan" shall mean and refer to zoning request or action which is in furtherance of and consistent with the goals, objectives, standards and policies of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan. (c) Development: The word "development" shall mean and refer to the carrying out of any use permitted on land by applicable zoning regulations (i.e., Chapter 33 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida) or making any material change in the use or character of the land, including, but not limited to, the placement of a structure or structures on land. When appropriate to the context, development refers to the act of zoning or rezoning through district boundary changes, or otherwise, which authorizes or permits development of the land. (d) Developments of County impact: The words "developments of County impact" shall mean and refer to any development which, because of its character, magnitude or location, would have a substantial effect upon the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. Development activity that meets one (1) of the following criteria shall be deemed "developments of County impact," and shall be accompanied by a developmental impact statement: (1)Residential apartment developments involving in excess of eight hundred (800) units or one hundred (100) acres;(2)All types of cluster or planned unit developments in excess of eight hundred (800) units;(3)Business uses involving in excess of thirty (30) acres or one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) square feet of retail floor area, or one thousand five hundred (1,500) vehicle off-street parking space capacity; (4)Mobile home parks involving in excess of one hundred (100) acres or eight hundred (800) mobile home units;(5)Townhouse developments involving in excess of one hundred (100) acres or eight hundred (800) units.(6)Recreational, cultural or entertainment facilities (exclusive of golf courses) involving in excess of one thousand five hundred (1,500) vehicle off-street parking space capacity for single performances or fifty (50) acres; (7)Office buildings or office complexes involving in excess of twenty (20) acres or two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) square feet of floor space, or one thousand five hundred (1,500) vehicle off-street parking space capacity; (8)Industrial, processing or manufacturing activity involving in excess of one hundred (100) acres, or one thousand (1,000) vehicle off-street parking space capacity; (9)All developments in lands designated as the Rapid Transit Development Impact Zone as defined in Section 33C-3 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (e) Developmental Impact Committee (Committee): The words "Developmental Impact Committee (Committee)" shall mean and refer to the Miami-Dade County Administrative Committee, created by Ordinance No. 74-47 of the Board of County Commissioners, adopted on June 18, 1974 [Section 33-36.1]. (f) Developmental impact statement: The words "developmental impact statement" shall mean and refer to the information required to be completed by rule and regulations of the Developmental Impact Committee as approved by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners for Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (g) Unit: The word "unit" shall mean or refer to a house, apartment, group of rooms or a single room occupied or intended for permanent or transient occupancy as separate living quarters. (h) Zoning action: First municipal action approving request(s) for district boundary change, special exception, variance, or the like, or any combination thereof, which would permit a development of County impact within a municipality in Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 75-52, § 5, 7-2-75; Ord. No. 78-74, § 2, 10-17-78)

,Chapter 33B AREAS OF CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN [1]



,Chapter 33C FIXED-GUIDEWAY RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEM—DEVELOPMENT ZONE [1]

Sec. 33C-1. Legislative intent, findings and purposes.Sec. 33C-2. Rapid Transit Zone.Sec. 33C-3. Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee.Sec. 33C-4. Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone.Sec. 33C-5. Guideway Aesthetic Zone.Sec. 33C-6. [Exceptions.]Sec. 33C-7. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Corridor Subzone.Sec. 33C-8. Rapid transit zone district regulations for non-Metrorail development within the City of Miami.Sec. 33C-1. Legislative intent, findings and purposes. The Board of County Commissioners for Miami-Dade County, Florida, hereby declares and finds that the uncoordinated use of lands within the County threatens the orderly development and the health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity and welfare of the present and future citizens of this County. Pursuant to Ordinance No. 75-22, the Board adopted and accepted the Comprehensive Development Master Plan for Miami-Dade County whereby it specifically declared that it was the continuing policy of Miami-Dade County, in cooperation with federal, State, regional and local governments, and other concerned public and private organizations, to use all reasonable means and measures to: (a)Foster and promote the general welfare;(b)To create and maintain conditions under which man and nature can exist in productive harmony; and(c)To fill the social, economic and other requirements of the present and future generations of citizens of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The board further found that the Comprehensive Development Master Plan was enacted to assure for all people of Miami-Dade County an attempt to create safe, healthful, productive and aesthetically and culturally pleasing surroundings; to attain the widest range of beneficial uses of the environment without unreasonable degradation, risk to the health or safety, or other undesirable and unintended consequences, to preserve important historic, cultural and natural aspects of our national heritage; to maintain, wherever possible, an environment which supports diversity and variety of individual choice; to achieve a balance between population and resources which will permit the high standards of living and a wide sharing of life's amenities, and to enhance the quality of renewal resources and approach the maximum attainable recycling of depletable resources. In furtherance of these goals and objectives, the Board finds that the coordinated review and analysis of its mass transit facilities is necessary to carry on a central metropolitan government in Miami-Dade County, Florida. Coordinated review and analysis of the mass transit system is susceptible to, and would be most effectively carried on, under a uniform plan of regulation applicable to the County as a whole. The planning of major transportation facilities, combined with other plan implementation tools, can be effectively used in meeting social, economic and environmental needs and in creating a major influence on metropolitan development patterns and life styles. The capability of a transportation network, acting in conjunction with other urban services to establish general development trends, is well recognized. A maximum coordination of transportation and land use policy decisions is therefore essential to optimize the role of transportation as a potent tool for implementing the desired patterns of metropolitan development. The Board further finds that the Stage I Fixed-Guideway Rapid Transit System has, since 1973, undergone extensive planning, review, analysis, and engineering design efforts. The Stage I System has received design approval from both the federal and State governments and is in the process of final design, procurement and construction activities. The Stage I System, including proposed improvements in other forms of surface transportation facilities, represents a concerted, coordinated effort to improve not only the transportation facilities within Miami-Dade County, but the overall quality of life enjoyed by citizens of and visitors to Miami-Dade County. Finally, the Stage I System represents one (1) of the largest public works projects ever undertaken in Miami-Dade County and the Southeastern United States. As such, the Stage I Fixed-Guideway Rapid Transit System may only be planned, engineered, implemented, and administered on a County-wide basis, in a manner which will: (a)Provide maximum opportunities for development to serve as financial assistance to the system; and(b)Provide incentives for joint development with the private sector. (Ord. No. 78-74, § 1, 10-17-78) Sec. 33C-2. Rapid Transit Zone.(A) Definition. The "Rapid Transit Zone" consists of all land area, including surface, subsurface, and appurtenant airspace, heretofore or hereafter designated by the Board of County Commissioners as necessary for the construction of the fixed-guideway portion of the Stage I Rapid Transit System, including all station sites, parking areas and yard and maintenance shop facilities. (B) Designation of lands included. The Board of County Commissioners hereby designates all land areas (including surface, subsurface, and appurtenant airspace) shown on Exhibits 1 through 16, bearing the following effective dates: Exhibit 1, July 31, 1998, Exhibits 2 through 9 and Exhibits 11 through 16, July 13, 1979 and Exhibit 10, May 26, 1983, certified by the Clerk of the Board as a portion of this chapter, incorporated hereby by reference, and transmitted to the custody of the Department of Planning and Zoning, as the Rapid Transit Zone for the Stage I Fixed-Guideway Rapid Transit System. The Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning shall submit to each affected municipality an official map or maps designating the Rapid Transit Zone which may from time to time be altered, enlarged, added to, amended or deleted by ordinance, after a public hearing within each municipality affected. (C) Jurisdiction of County. Jurisdiction for purposes of building and zoning approvals (including, but not limited to, site plan approvals, issuance of building permits, building inspections, compliance with the South Florida Building Code, issuance of certificates of occupancy, zoning applications, special exceptions, variances, district boundary changes, building and/or zoning moratoria, and all other types of functions typically performed by Building and/or Zoning Departments), water and sewer installations, compliance with environmental regulations, street maintenance (including sidewalks where applicable) and utility regulation, all of which relate to the uses specifically delineated in subsection (D) below, shall be and are hereby vested in Miami-Dade County regardless of any municipal code, charter, or ordinance provisions to the contrary. (D) Permitted land uses. The following land uses are permitted within the Rapid Transit Zone and no others: (1)Fixed guideways for the Rapid Transit System.(2)Stations for the Rapid Transit System, including such uses as passenger platforms and waiting areas, ticket and information booths, restrooms, utility rooms, in-station advertising displays, stairs, elevators, walkways, concessions, vending machines, and other service-related businesses offering goods and services for sale to passengers, and other similar uses as are necessary for or ancillary to the proper functioning of a rapid transit station. (3)Parking lots and parking structures.(4)Bus stops and shelters.(5)Streets and sidewalks.(6)Maintenance facilities for the Rapid Transit System, including yard and shops, and associated tracks and facilities.(7)Landscaping.(8)Bikeways, parks, community gardening, playgrounds, power substations and other uses necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of the Rapid Transit System. (9)(a)Such other uses, including commercial, office and residential uses, as may be appropriate to and compatible with the operation of the Rapid Transit System and the convenience of the ridership thereof. (b)Subzones; development regulations, standards and criteria. In the unincorporated areas of the Rapid Transit Zone, subzones shall be created by separate ordinances which shall become part of this chapter. Said ordinances shall identify the boundaries of the individual subzones and shall establish development regulations and site plan review standards and criteria for those land uses permitted pursuant to subsection (9)(a) herein and approved pursuant to subsection (9)(c) herein. (c)Requests for approval of development of those land uses permitted pursuant to subsection (9)(a) herein within a subzone created pursuant to subsection (9)(b) herein shall be made by filing an application in accordance with the provisions of Section 33-304. Said application shall be considered a special exception for site plan approval to be considered and acted upon directly by the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to the criteria established in Section 33-311(d) and the provisions of the applicable subzone. (d)Whenever uses authorized by subparagraph (a) above are proposed within portions of the Rapid Transit Zone passing through municipalities, the Station Area Design and Development Program process, a joint municipal-County program administered through the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee, shall prepare proposed master plan development standards for such proposed uses. Such proposed master plan development standards shall be submitted to the appropriate municipality for review and adoption as the Master Land Use Plan for such uses. Once adopted, said land use plans shall control all public actions involving or affecting land use or development, including action on applications for zoning relief. Amendments to said Master Land Use Plans shall be subject to the procedures specified in this subparagraph. Applications for a site plan approval and other related zoning actions under a Master Land Use Plan that was approved by a municipality on or before September 30, 2003, shall be considered by the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee under the standards and requirements established by such plan, upon receipt of the recommendations of the Department of Planning and Zoning and the Miami-Dade Transit Agency. Decisions of the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee upon such applications shall be subject to appeal to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with the requirements of Section 33-314, Miami-Dade County Code. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners to immediately transmit to the relevant municipality a certified copy of the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee's and the County Commission's actions in regard to the uses provided for in this subsection. An aggrieved party may seek judicial review of the County Commission's action in accordance with Section 33-316, Miami-Dade County Code. (e)After March 15, 2008, (the effective date of this ordinance), whenever uses authorized by subparagraph (a) above are proposed within portions of the Rapid Transit Zone located within the City of Miami not yet subject to an approved set of development standards, the master plan development standards set forth in Section 33C-8 herein shall control such proposed uses. Said land use plans shall control all public actions involving or affecting land use or development, including action on applications for zoning relief. Amendments to said Master Land Use Plans shall be subject to the procedures specified in this subparagraph. Applications for site plan approval and other related zoning actions under a Master Land Use Plan shall be considered by the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee under the standards and requirements established by such plan, upon receipt of the recommendations of the Department of Planning and Zoning and the Miami-Dade Transit Agency. Decisions of the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee upon such applications shall be subject to appeal to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with the requirements of Section 33-314, Miami-Dade County Code. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners to immediately transmit to the City of Miami a certified copy of the decision of the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee and the actions of the Board of County Commissioners in regard to the uses provided for in this subsection. An aggrieved party may seek judicial review of the County Commission's action in accordance with Section 33-316, Miami-Dade County Code. (f)The uses provided in this subsection shall, where applicable, be subject to municipal ordinances relating to occupational license taxes, and such taxes be and they are hereby expressly reserved to such municipalities. (10)County government office development in the Rapid Transit Zone within municipalities. Whenever County office development is proposed for that portion of the Rapid Transit Zone surrounding the Douglas Road Metrorail Station, the directors of the Departments of Planning and Zoning, the Miami-Dade Transit Agency and the department proposing the development shall develop proposed master plan development standards for such proposed uses. The standards shall contain, at a minimum: (a) maximum height of the building; (b) maximum floor area ratio; (c) maximum parking provided; (d) minimum open space; (e) minimum setbacks from property lines; (f) gross and net land area; (g) criteria for pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems; (h) signage criteria; (i) criteria for parking layouts and drives; and (j) features demonstrating conformity with the guidelines for development of urban centers contained in the Comprehensive Development Master Plan, conformity with the Miami-Dade County Urban Design Manual, and consistency with the Metrorail Compendium of Design Criteria. Upon the consent of the county manager, the proposed standards shall be submitted to the affected municipality's governing board for review and approval. In reviewing the standards, the municipality shall consider the type of function involved, the public need therefor, the existing land use pattern in the area and the nature of the impact of the facility on the surrounding property. The municipal governing board shall have the power to approve or reject the standards, but shall not modify the standards as submitted. Unless extended by agreement with the County Manager, failure of the municipal governing board to reach a final decision on the proposed development standards within 60 days after receipt of the standards may be deemed by the County to be a lack of objection to the standards as proposed. If the municipal governing board rejects the proposed development standards, the proposed County office development shall not be permitted at the site unless the Board of County Commissioners determines after duly noticed public hearing that the proposed development is of County-wide necessity and significance, and upon such determination approves the development standards in accordance with the criteria applicable to the municipal governing board. After approval of the development standards, a site plan consistent with the approved development standards shall be submitted to the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning. After review by the Directors of the Departments of Planning and Zoning, the Miami-Dade Transit Agency and the department seeking development approval, the County Manager may submit the site plan to the Board of County Commissioners with a recommendation for approval. The Board of County Commissioners may authorize the development and approve the site plan by resolution following public hearing. The public hearing shall be held upon 15 days' notice of the time and place of the hearing published in a newspaper of general circulation in Miami-Dade County, which publication shall include the time and place of hearing before the Board of County Commissioners. A courtesy notice containing general information as to the date, time and place of the hearing, the property location and general nature of the proposed development may be mailed to the property owners of record within a radius of three hundred (300) feet of the property described in the application, or such greater distance as the County Manager may provide; provided, however, that failure to mail or receive such courtesy notice shall not affect any action or proceeding taken hereunder. To provide additional notice to the public, the property may be posted by a sign or signs indicating the action desired and the time and place of public hearing thereon. Failure to post the property shall not affect any action taken hereunder. At the public hearing, the Board shall consider, among other factors, the type of function involved, the public need therefor, the existing land use pattern in the area, alternative locations for the facility and the nature of the impact of the development on the surrounding property. This process shall apply only to that portion of the Rapid Transit Zone surrounding the Douglas Road Metrorail Station. (E) Effect on existing land uses. All land areas included by this section within the Rapid Transit Zone upon which uses other than those specified in subsection (D) of this section were authorized or permitted prior to October 27, 1978 may be used as follows: (1) Existing structures. All existing buildings or structures and all uses for which building permits have already been issued prior to the effective date of this article and which have complied with the applicable provisions of the South Florida Building Code, may be continued or constructed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications therefor. Alterations, improvements, or expansions of existing structures shall be subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) hereof. (2) All other lands. No applications for site or plan approvals and/or building permits shall be issued for new facilities within the Rapid Transit Zone except in the following circumstances: (a)The estimated construction cost does not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in any consecutive two-year period; or(b)The Miami-Dade Transit Agency certifies that approval of the application will not have an adverse impact upon a material element of the Stage I System. The Miami-Dade Transit Agency shall, with respect to any application for which certification is refused, provide a detailed written explanation supporting the refusal to certify and specifying the corrective actions, if any, which would lead to certification. The decision of the Agency may be appealed to the Board of County Commissioners within thirty (30) days from the date of the written explanation by filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners, after giving public notice as required by Chapter 33 of the Code, shall hear the appeal and either affirm, deny or modify the decision of the Agency. Appeals from the Board of County Commissioners' action shall be in accordance with Section 33-316 of this Code. (Ord. No. 78-74, § 1, 10-17-78; Ord. No. 79-59, § 1, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 82-80, § 1, 9-7-82; Ord. No. 83-27, § 1, 5-17-83; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; 98-114, § 1, 7-21-98; Ord. No. 98-125, § 24, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 00-38, § 1, 2-21-00; Ord. No. 02-171, § 1, 9-24-02; Ord. No. 03-113, § 2, 5-6-03; Ord. No. 08-28, § 1, 3-4-08) Annotation—CAO 84-10.Editor's note— Ord. No. 82-79, § 1, adopted Sept. 7, 1982, and Ord. No. 87-55, § 1, adopted July 21, 1987, amended § 33C-2 by amending one (1) of the drawings of the Rapid Transit Zone maps, which drawings are not reproduced herein. Sec. 33C-3. Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee. There is hereby established a Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council composed of the County's Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council (established by Section 33-303.1, Miami-Dade County Code) and two (2) representatives from each of the following municipalities: City of South Miami, City of Coral Gables, City of Miami, and the City of Hialeah. The Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee shall, subject to the procedures specified in Section 33-303.1, Miami-Dade County Code, perform the duties specified in Section 33C-2 and Section 33C-4 of this chapter. Mailed notice of hearings before the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee pursuant to Section 33C-2(D)(9)(d) shall be provided in the same manner as hearings on applications filed before the Community Zoning Appeals Board pursuant to Section 33-310(d)(3) for the special exceptions expressly enumerated in that subsection. Mailed notice of the hearing shall also be provided simultaneously to the municipality in which the application site is located. Applications shall comply with the procedural requirements of Section 33-304. (Ord. No. 78-74, § 1, 10-17-78; Ord. No. 03-113, § 3, 5-6-03) Sec. 33C-4. Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone. The Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone consists of those lands in such close proximity to the Rapid Transit System as to have a significant impact thereon. The Station Area Design and Development (SADD) Program (authorized by Miami-Dade County Resolution No. R-829-77), a joint municipal-County program administered through the Rapid Transit Development Impact Committee, shall prepare proposed development standards for the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone for those stations not subject to Section 33C-2(D)(9)(e). Such proposed development standards shall be submitted to the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee established by Section 33C-3 of this chapter for review, comment and any recommendations. The Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee report, including the proposed development standards, shall be submitted to the appropriate municipality or, in the unincorporated areas, to the County for review and adoption as the land use plan for developments within the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone. The foregoing notwithstanding, after completion of the initial task by the SADD Program, for those stations not subject to Section 33C-2(D)(9)(e) the Rapid Transit Development Impact Committee shall prepare all future development standards for the Rapid Transit Development Impact Zone for review and adoption by the Board of County Commissioners if located in unincorporated Miami-Dade County or the appropriate municipality if located in incorporated Miami-Dade County. Once adopted, said land use plans shall control all public actions involving or affecting land use or development, including action on applications for zoning relief, within the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone. Amendments to said land use plans shall be subject to the procedures specified in this section. The County may seek judicial review of any official municipal acts relating to lands within the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, mailed notice of hearings before the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee pursuant to Section 33-2(D)(9)(e) shall be provided in the same manner as hearings on applications filed before the Community Zoning Appeals Board pursuant to Section 33-310(d)(3) for the special exceptions expressly enumerated in that subsection. Mailed notice of the hearings shall also be provided simultaneously to the municipality in which the application site is located. Applications shall comply with the procedural requirements of Section 33-304. (Ord. No. 78-74, § 1, 10-17-78; Ord. No. 08-28, § 2, 3-4-08) Editor's note— Pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and Resolution No. R-867-76, the County has enacted the following ordinances, accepting Station Area Design and Development Studies: Sec. 33C-5. Guideway Aesthetic Zone. Definition: The Guideway Aesthetic Zone consists of those land areas designated by the Board of County Commissioners which are adjacent to or within the Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Zone. Said lands [include those land areas which] are within the line of sight of the Rapid Transit System fixed guideways and stations and upon which land developments and/or structures (specifically including billboards) will deleteriously affect the aesthetic impact of the Rapid Transit System. (Ord. No. 78-74, § 1, 10-17-78) Sec. 33C-6. [Exceptions.] The provisions of Sections 33C-2(D)(9) through 33C-5 shall not apply to those portions of the Rapid Transit Zone or Rapid Transit impact zone that are included within the boundaries of an urban center designation in the Comprehensive Development Master Plan and for which specific Urban Center Zoning District regulations have been adopted. (Ord. No. 99-166, § 2, 12-16-99) Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-166, § 2, adopted Dec. 16, 1999 replaced section 33C-6 with a new section 33C-6. Former section 33C-6 pertained to the Dadeland Subzone and derived from Ord. No. 82-81, § 1, adopted Sept. 7, 1982; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, adopted Dec. 5, 1995; Ord. No. 98-14, § 1, adopted Jan. 13, 1998; and Ord. No. 98-125, §§ 24, 37, adopted Sept. 3, 1998. Sec. 33C-7. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Corridor Subzone.(1) Boundaries. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 33C-2(D)9(b), the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Corridor Subzone (MLK Corridor Subzone) of the Rapid Transit Zone is hereby established; the boundaries of the Subzone include all portions of the Rapid Transit Zone located north of NW 51st Street and east of NW 32nd Avenue, as described in and incorporated into Section 33C-2(B) hereof; said boundaries shall be certified by the Clerk of the Board as a part of this section, and transmitted to the Department of Planning and Zoning for custody. (2) Development regulations. The following development regulations shall apply within the MLK Corridor Subzone, except for the Brownsville and Martin Luther King Jr. Stations, which development shall comply with the Model City Urban Center District regulations set forth in Chapter 33, Article XXXIII(R) of this Code, and except for the Northside Station, which development shall comply with the North Central Urban Area District regulations set forth in Chapter 33, Article XXXIII(S) of this Code: (a)Mixed uses, as provided by Section 33C-2(D)(9)(a) shall be permitted, said uses including, but not limited to, residential, office, hotel, clubs, restaurants, theatres, retail, etc. (b)Parking for single use projects shall be provided at no less than ninety (90) percent or no greater than one hundred ten (110) percent of the following standards: i.Residential—One (1) parking space for each dwelling unit.ii.Office—One (1) parking space for each four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area.iii.Hotel—One (1) parking space for every two (2) guestrooms.iv.Other uses—Ninety (90) percent of the required parking per Section 33-124 (c)Parking for mixed-use projects (two (2) or more land uses) shall be calculated by applying the ULI Shared Parking Methodology (Library of Congress Card Number 83 51648) to the parking requirements as specified above. Parking shall fulfill between ninety (90) percent and one hundred ten (110) percent of the ULI calculation. (d)Setbacks. See site plan review standards and criteria herein.(e)The maximum floor area ratio shall not exceed 3.0.(f)The maximum building height shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) feet.(g)The minimum open space shall be twenty-five (25) percent; said open space may be provided at grade or on abovegrade surfaces, provided that at least fifteen (15) percent is outdoor at grade, and shall include landscape areas improved and maintained with grass, shrubbery, and trees, water fountains and features, art displays, and other landscape elements and features. (h)Sign(s), to direct traffic flow and locate entrances and exits to developments and/or to identify developments within the subzone area and on abutting properties shall be permitted in connection with any permitted use. Said signs shall be reviewed by the Department of Planning and Zoning and Miami-Dade Transit Agency for compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in Section 33C-7(3) below. (3) Site plan review standards and criteria. The purpose of the site plan review is to encourage logic, imagination and variety in the design process in an attempt to insure the congruity of the proposed development and its compatibility with the surrounding area. The following site plan review standards and criteria shall be utilized as a guide by the Developmental Impact Committee or the Department of Planning and Zoning and by the Board of County Commissioners in the consideration of requests for special exception for site plan approvals within the MLK Corridor Subzone, except for the Brownsville and Martin Luther King Jr. Stations, which development shall comply with the Model City Urban Center District regulations set forth in Chapter 33, Article XXXIII(R) of this Code, and except for the Northside Station, which development shall comply with the North Central Urban Area District regulations set forth in Chapter 33, Article XXXIII(S) of this Code: (a)All development shall conform foremost with the guidelines for development of Urban Centers contained in the Comprehensive Development Master Plan, and shall be reviewed for its compatibility with the Miami-Dade County Urban Design Manual, the Metrorail compendium of design criteria, and the applicable station area design and development plan. (b)Mixed, twenty-four-hour activity uses should be encouraged to be incorporated into the design of development projects.(c)Setbacks may not be required due to the unique locational characteristics associated with the MLK Corridor Subzone site; however, building locations shall be reviewed to assure compatibility with surrounding existing, proposed, and anticipated development and uses and to assure that no visual or other safety hazards are created in connection with existing, proposed, and anticipated pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems. (d)Pedestrian open space, in the form of plazas, arcades, courtyards, landscaped areas, etc., particularly at the level of the station, with convenient connections between the station and restaurants, theatres, retail uses, etc., so as to provide easy access thereto, should be encouraged to be incorporated into the design of all development projects. (e)The scale of all development projects should be designed to be compatible with surrounding existing, proposed, and anticipated development and uses, and, therein, step-down buildings may be encouraged to be incorporated into the design of the project, and all development should be architecturally and aesthetically compatible with the station and enhance the surrounding area. (f)Open space and landscaping should be incorporated into the design of all development projects to allow sufficient light and air to penetrate the project, to direct wind movements, to shade and cool, to visually enhance architectural features and relate the structure design to the site, and to functionally enhance the projects; outdoor graphics and exterior art displays and water features should be encouraged to be designed as an integral part of the open space and landscaped areas. (g)All development projects should be designed so as to reduce energy consumption. Energy conservation methods may include, but not be limited to, the natural ventilation of structures, the siting of structures in relation to prevailing breezes and sun angles, and the provision of landscaping for shade and transpiration. (h)All development projects should be designed so that the pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems adequately serve the needs of the project and are compatible and functional with the circulation systems exterior to the site. (i)All development projects should be designed with a coordinated outdoor lighting and signage system that is adequate for and an integral part of the project and that is compatible and harmonious with the project and the surrounding area. (Ord. No. 99-161, § 1, 11-16-99; Ord. No. 10-13, § 8, 2-2-10; Ord. No. 11-65, § 8, 8-2-11) Sec. 33C-8. Rapid transit zone district regulations for non-Metrorail development within the City of Miami.(A) Purpose and intent. The purpose of these development standards is to provide guidelines governing the use, site design, building mass, parking, and circulation for all non-Metrorail development in the Rapid Transit Zone within the City of Miami with the intent of fulfilling the goals, objectives and policies of the County's Comprehensive Development Master Plan urban center text. Unless specified to the contrary, the Rapid Transit Zone District Regulations supersede all conflicting requirements in Chapter 33 and Chapter 18A of the Code of Miami-Dade County. (B) Definitions. Terms used in this section shall take their commonly accepted meaning unless otherwise defined in Chapter 33 or Chapter 28 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, or already defined herein. Terms requiring interpretation specific to this section are as follows: (1) Arcade/colonnade: A roofed structure, extending over the sidewalk, open to the street except for supporting columns and piers. An arcade/colonnade's depth shall be measured from face of column to face of building. In Metropolitan Urban Centers colonnade depth shall be a minimum of 15 feet and in Community Urban Centers colonnade depth shall be a minimum of 10 feet. (2) Block: A combination of contiguous building lots, the perimeter of which abuts rights-of-way, drives, or an open space. (3) Build-to-line: A line parallel to the block face, along which a building shall be built. (4) Building height: A limit to the vertical extent of a building measured in stories above grade, not including chimneys, antennas, elevator shafts, mechanical rooms or other non-habitable areas. (5) F.A.R.: The floor area of the building or buildings, excluding parking structures, on any lot divided by the area of the site. (6) Habitable space: Building space whose use involves human presence. Habitable space shall not include areas devoted to the parking of vehicles in parking garage structures, self-service storage facilities, or warehouses. (7) Live-work unit: A mixed-use building type with one single-family residential dwelling located above one work space. (8) Open space: An outdoor, at grade space which is accessible to the public all or most of the time, including parks, plazas, squares, colonnades, greens, promenades, pedestrian paths and/or associated ornamental or shaded landscaped areas. (9) Penthouse: In a Community Urban Center, the 2 top stories (top 5 stories with Gold LEED Certification; top 3 stories with Silver LEED Certification) of a building with a floorplate area less than that of the tower below. In a Metropolitan Community Urban Center, the 5 top stories (7 top stories for Gold LEED Certification; 6 top stories for Silver LEED Certification) stories of a building with a floorplate area less that that of the tower below. (10) Pedestal: In a Community Urban Center, the bottom 5 stories (7 stories with Gold LEED Certification; 6 stories with Silver LEED Certification) portion of a building that creates the street frontage. In a Metropolitan Urban Center, the bottom 7 stories (11 stories with Gold LEED Certification; 8 stories with Silver LEED Certification) portion of a building that creates the street frontage. (11) Plaza: An open space fronted by retail and office uses. A minimum of 50% and a maximum of 75% of the plaza's area, exclusive of dedicated rights-of-way and drives, shall be hard-surfaced. Landscaping shall consist primarily of hard-surfaced areas, permanent architecture or water-oriented features, and trees that are placed in an orderly fashion and that are regularly spaced. (12) Square: An outdoor open space that shall be flanked by streets or drives on at least 3 sides and shall not be hard-surfaced for more than 50% of the area exclusive of dedicated rights-of-way. Landscaping shall consist primarily of hard-surfaced walks, lawns, and trees that are placed in an orderly fashion and that are regularly spaced. (13) Story: An enclosed floor level within a building containing habitable space. (14) Tower: In a Community Urban Center, the middle 8 stories (13 stories with Gold LEED Certification; 11 stories with Silver LEED Certification) portion of a building above the pedestal and below the penthouse. In a Metropolitan Urban Center, the middle 13 stories (22 stories with Gold LEED Certification; 16 stories with Silver LEED Certification) portion of a building above the pedestal and below the penthouse. (15) Workforce housing unit or WHU: A dwelling unit, the sale, rental or pricing of which, in accordance with this article, is restricted to households whose income is within the workforce housing target income range. (16) Workforce housing target income range: Households whose income range is established at 65% up to 140% of the most recent median family income for the County reported by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development as maintained by the Department of Planning and Zoning. (C) Development Parameters. The following parameters shall apply to Rapid Transit Zone Station development provided such uses are compatible with transit uses and operations as determined by the Miami-Dade Transit Agency: (1) Permitted Uses. A minimum of two of the following uses shall be included in all Rapid Transit Zone Station development: (a)Business and civic uses allowed in the BU-1, BU-1A and BU-2 zoning districts. Drive-thru services are permitted and shall be concealed from the adjoining street network. (i)Outside food sales and services including but not limited to outdoor dining, cart vendors, and merchandise displays.(ii)The provisions of Section 33-150(A) and (B) of the Zoning Code regarding alcoholic beverage uses shall not apply. (b)Residential uses. All residential or mixed-use developments, including those which obtained LEED or similar organization certification, located within any of the Rapid Transit Zones, with more than 4 residential units, shall provide a minimum of 12.5% of their units as work force housing units. (c)Housing for the elderly.(2) Setbacks. The setbacks for Rapid Transit Zone station development shall be as follows: (a) Pedestal build-to-line from streets and drives: 0 feet when colonnade is provided in all urban centers; 15 feet in Metropolitan Urban Centers when colonnade is not provided. 10 feet in Community Urban Centers when colonnade is not provided. The build-to-line setback shall be hard surfaced and finished to match the adjoining sidewalk when a colonnade is not provided. Tower build-to-line from streets and drives: Minimum 10 feet when colonnade is provided in all urban centers; minimum 25 feet in Metropolitan Urban Centers when colonnade is not provided, minimum 20 feet in Community Urban Centers when colonnade is not provided. The build-to-line setback shall be hard surfaced and finished to match the adjoining sidewalk when a colonnade is not provided. Penthouse build-to-line from streets and drives: For up to a minimum of 50% of the building frontage, minimum 20 feet when colonnade is provided in all urban centers; minimum 35 feet in Metropolitan Urban Centers when colonnade is not provided, minimum 30 feet in Community Urban Centers when colonnade is not provided. The build-to-line setback shall be hard surfaced and finished to match the adjoining sidewalk when a colonnade is not provided. When nonresidential uses are located across the street from single-family zoned property, the build-to-line shall be 30 feet for the pedestal, except 20 feet if colonnade is provided, a minimum of 40 feet for the tower and a minimum of 50 feet for the penthouse. (b) Interior side: 0 feet in all urban centers, except 30 feet minimum for all portions of the building including parking structures when adjacent to single-family residential zoned districts. (c) Rear side: 0 feet minimum in all urban centers including the metrorail station guideway, except 30 feet minimum for all portions of the building including parking structures when adjacent to single-family residential zoned districts (3) Floor Area Ratio (F.A.R.). The floor area ratio for Rapid Transit Zone station development shall be as follows: (a)Community Urban Centers (Civic Center Station; Coconut Grove Station; Culmer Station; the undeveloped portion of Douglas Road Station) shall have a minimum F.A.R. of 1.5. (4) Density. The maximum densities for Rapid Transit Zone station development shall be as follows: (a)Metropolitan Urban Centers: 250 units per net acre.(b)Community Urban Centers: 125 units per net acre. A 25% density bonus above the listed maximum urban center densities is permitted for residential rapid transit developments being designed for and having registered for certification for a Gold certification rating from LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) or a similar organization accredited by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). Residential developments being designed and having registered for certification for a Silver Certification rating from LEED or a similar organization accredited by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) are permitted a density bonus of 12.5% above the listed maximum urban center densities. (5) Building Heights. The maximum building heights for all Rapid Transit Zone station development shall be as follows: (a)Metropolitan Urban Centers: 25 stories (maximum — 7 stories pedestal, 13 stories tower, 5 stories penthouse)(b)Community Urban Centers: 15 stories (maximum — 5 stories pedestal, 8 stories tower, 2 stories penthouse)(c)The maximum building height for the Coconut Grove station shall be 250 feet provided the development is designed and has registered for certification for a Silver Certification rating from LEED or a similar organization accredited by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). All rapid transit development having been designed and having registered for a certification rating from LEED or a similar organization accredited by the USGBC is permitted an increase in the number of allowable stories as follows: (a)Metropolitan Urban Centers: a total of 30 stories (maximum — 8 stories pedestal, 16 stories tower, 6 stories penthouse) with Silver Certification; 40 stories (maximum — 11 stories pedestal, 22 stories tower, 7 stories penthouse) with Gold Certification (b)Community Urban Centers: a total of 20 stories (maximum — 6 stories pedestal, 11 stories tower, 3 stories penthouse) with Silver Certification; 25 stories (maximum — 7 stories pedestal, 13 stories tower, 5 stories penthouse) with Gold Certification Each story shall have a maximum height of 16 feet, as measured from floor to floor, except that a single story may have a maximum height of 30 feet, provided no mezzanine area exceeds 10% of the floor area of that story. Any height above 16 feet shall count as an additional story. (6) Building Frontage. 80% minimum at build-to-line for all Rapid Transit Zone station developments. Habitable space is required along the entire ground floor portion of all buildings including parking garages. (7) Parking. The minimum parking requirements for all Rapid Transit Zone station development shall be provided as specified in Section 33-124 of the Zoning Code, except as follows: (a)Residential: 1 parking space for 1-bedroom units; 1.5 parking spaces for 2-bedroom units; 1.75 parking spaces for 3 or more bedroom units; and 0.5 parking spaces for housing for the elderly. (b)Workforce housing units: Workforce housing units may reduce the parking requirements of this section by 0.25 spaces/unit.(c)Retail: 1 parking space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area.(d)Restaurants: 1 parking space for each 50 square feet of patron area.(e)Office: 1 parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.(f)Hotel: 1 parking space for first 40 guest rooms and one additional space for every 2 guest rooms or suites thereafter.(g)Live-work units: residential component: 2 spaces per unit; workshop component: 1 space for 325 square feet of workshop area.(h)The minimum combined parking requirement for mixed-use development shall be as follows: Multi-story parking garage structures shall be screened along all frontages (streets and common open spaces), except along a service road or a pedestrian passage, by a liner building containing a minimum depth of 20 feet of habitable space. Parking garages shall have all architectural expression facing public open space consistent and harmonious with that of habitable space. Surface parking shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from property lines. Streetwalls and/or habitable space shall be built at the frontage line or at the build-to-line to screen parking from view. (8) Encroachments. Awnings, balconies, roof eaves, signs, porches, stoops and ramps may encroach into setbacks. Awnings, balconies, roof eaves and signs may encroach into rights-of-way; however, they shall not extend a distance closer than 6 inches from the curb face. All right-of-way encroachments shall be a minimum of 132 inches above the sidewalk. Encroachments shall not be taller than the building or pedestal, whichever is lower. Cantilevers and mouldings shall not exceed 3 feet in extension beyond the vertical wall surface, unless visibly supported by brackets or other supports. (9) Building Facades. (a)Building streetwall surfaces shall be a minimum 30% glazed. Mirror-type glass shall not be allowed. All glazing shall be of a type that permits view of human activities and spaces within. The first floor streetwall shall be a minimum 30% glazed. Glazing shall be clear or very lightly tinted for the first 5 stories, except where used for screening garages where it may be translucent. (b)Security screens and gates shall be a minimum 50% transparent.(c)Colonnade column spacing, windows, and doors shall have a vertical proportion.(10) Open Space. A minimum of 15% of the lot area shall be reserved for open space in the form of greens, squares, plazas, parks, promenades and pedestrian paths. It shall be at grade level and it shall be accessible to the public. Arcades/colonnades shall count toward meeting the minimum open space requirements. Parking lot buffers shall not count toward the open space requirement. (11) Landscape. Landscape shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 18A (Landscape Code) of Miami-Dade County with the following exceptions: (a)Street trees shall be placed along all streets at an average spacing of 25 feet on center with a minimum 4-inch diameter at breast height. (b)Street trees shall not be required when colonnades are being provided along the street.(c)Tree requirements for private property shall be based on 16 trees per net acre of lot area.(12) Pedestrian Passage. A pedestrian passage shall be required every 400 linear feet of street frontage to allow public access through the site. The passage shall be minimum unobstructed 8 feet wide. (D) Site Plan Review Standards and Criteria. The purpose of the site plan review is to encourage logic, imagination, and variety in the design process in an attempt to ensure congruity of the proposed development and its compatibility with the surrounding area. The following site plan review standards shall be utilized as a guide by the Miami-Dade Rapid Transit Developmental Impact Committee, the Miami-Dade Department of Planning and Zoning, and by the Board of County Commissioners in the consideration for site plan approval for all Rapid Transit Zone stations: All development in the Rapid Transit Zone shall be designed to contribute to the creation of a high-quality pedestrian environment within the zone and along its perimeter and provide direct logistical connections between the transit station and the adjacent neighborhood. (1)Design considerations shall include: the placement, orientation and scale of buildings and building elements particularly at street level, sidewalks and connections, and provisions of weather protection, landscape, and lighting. (2)The architectural design and scale of any proposed structure shall be compatible with surrounding existing or proposed uses or shall be made compatible by the use of screening elements. Screening elements can include such devices as trees and shrubs, walls and fencing, berming or any combination of these elements. Visual buffering shall be provided between parking and service areas and adjacent uses. (3)All buildings shall have their main entrance opening to a street or meaningful open space from such as squares, parks, greens, plazas and promenades. In addition, there shall be pedestrian entrances at maximum intervals of 75' along the street. (4)Building placement shall architecturally define transit station entrance plazas, fare collection areas, and platforms. Habitable space shall front entrance plazas, fare collection areas, and platforms to promote pedestrian activity between the development and the transit station. (5)Colonnade column spacing and fenestration (doors, windows, openings) shall have a vertical proportion.(6)All developments shall have sidewalks or pedestrian paths a minimum 8' wide providing pedestrian linkages between the transit station and anticipated destinations in the Rapid Transit Zone and the adjacent neighborhoods. (7)Buildings and their pedestrian accommodations, landscapes and parking facilities shall be oriented and arranged toward the street, contribute to spatial enclosure of street space in and around the Subzone, blocks and pedestrian pathways in the Rapid Transit Zone, and shall produce coherent, direct connections within the site and to the adjacent streets, sidewalks and paths. (8)Building architecture, exterior finish materials and textures, architectural elements and ornamentation shall be selected to produce human scale at street level. (9)Open spaces and landscaping should be incorporated into the design of all development projects to allow sufficient light and air to penetrate the project, to direct wind movements, to shade and cool, to visually enhance architectural features and relate the structure design to the site, and to functionally enhance the projects. Outdoor graphics and exterior art displays and water features should be encouraged to be designed as an integral part of the open space and landscaped areas. (10)All development projects should be designed so as to reduce energy consumption. Energy conservation methods may include, without limitation, the natural ventilation of structures, the siting of structures in relation to prevailing breezes and sun angles, and the provision of landscaping for shade and transpiration. (11)Public open spaces in the form of squares, plazas, greens, etc., shall be connected to the station and proposed development, so as to provide easy access thereto. A sprinkler system shall be installed in all of the proposed landscaped areas to maintain said areas in good, healthy condition. (12)Service areas shall be located and screened to minimize negative visual impacts from the street.(13)Mechanical equipment installed on roofs shall be screened from view by parapets or other architectural elements.(14)Trees shall be used as a design element to provide visual identity to the property and reinforce the street edge. Tree grates or other approved devices shall be provided around all trees in hard surface areas to ensure adequate water and air penetration. (15)All utilities on site shall be buried underground.(16)Adequate circulation throughout the development project shall be provided to accommodate emergency vehicles.(17)The development shall be designed with a coordinated outdoor pedestrian-scaled lighting system that is adequate, integrated into the project and compatible and harmonious with the surrounding areas. (18)Street furniture such as trash containers and benches shall be permanently secured to the sidewalk. Street furniture shall not obstruct sight visibility triangles at street intersections. (19)Dumpsters shall not be visible from the public street.(20)Architectural elements at street level shall have human scale, abundant windows, doors and design variations to create interest for the pedestrian. Blank walls at street level and above the ground floor of buildings are not permitted. (21)All parking garages shall have all architectural expressions facing public open spaces consistent and harmonious with that of habitable spaces. (E) Site Review Procedure and Exhibits. Development proposal shall be submitted and reviewed as provided in Section 33-304, Code of Miami-Dade County, and herein: (1) Preapplication Conference. Prior to the filing of an application for site plan approval, the prospective applicant shall schedule a preapplication conference with the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning for preliminary review of a conceptual development plan. The Department of Planning and Zoning shall notify the Miami-Dade Transit Agency, Miami-Dade County and affected municipal Departments of Public Works, as well as other Miami-Dade County and municipal agencies, as appropriate. Said agencies and departments shall be requested to provide current information about any government-planned street improvements, and any street section standards that would be applicable, on streets adjoining the proposed development site. The applicant shall bring to the conference a schematic development plan illustrating fundamentals of the proposed site design and architecture, addressing locations of existing and planned property lines, property ownership, public right-of-way, streets, transit platform, buildings and open spaces, and other essential elements of the proposed development with sufficient information to demonstrate an understanding of the intent, standards and criteria established in this section. (2) Application Exhibits. The exhibits listed below shall be submitted with the formal application for site plan review. The Department of Planning and Zoning shall review the application, including these exhibits, for completeness as required to determine compliance with all requirements of this Section. The Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning is authorized to waive any of the items required because of the nature or timing of the development or because the information cannot be furnished at the time of this review, provided the Director determines that the information is not necessary to a determination of conformance with the requirements of the Section. The exhibits shall include the following: (a)Site plan(s) at a scale of not less than 1 inch equals 60 feet containing the following information:(i)Location of existing and planned streets and curb lines.(ii)Location of lot lines and setbacks.(iii)Location, shape, size, and height, as applicable, of existing and proposed buildings, open spaces, fencing, walls, projections, signage, and landscaping. (iv)Location of on-street and off-street parking, loading facilities, and waste collection areas.(v)Phase lines, if applicable.(vi)Landscape plans, including specification of plant material, location, and size.(vii)Floor plans and elevations of all structures, including total gross square foot area of each floor and all dimensions relating to the requirements of this Section. (viii)Figures indicating gross and net acreage, and area to be dedicated for public right-of-way.(ix)Square footage of each land use and total for the development.(x)Total number of dwelling units and hotel guest rooms if applicable.(xi)Amount of building coverage at ground level in square feet and percentage of net lot area.(xii)Amount of open space required and provided, in square feet and percentage of net lot area.(xiii)Number of parking spaces required and provided.(F) Conflicts with Other Chapters and Regulations. This article shall govern in the event of conflicts with other zoning, subdivision, or landscape regulations of the Zoning Code, or with the Miami-Dade Public Works Department Manual. (Ord. No. 08-28, § 3, 3-4-08)

,Chapter 33D BISCAYNE BAY MANAGEMENT [1]



,Chapter 33E ROAD IMPACT FEES [1]

Sec. 33E-1. Incorporation of provisions by reference.Sec. 33E-2. Short title, authority and applicability.Sec. 33E-3. Intent and purposes.Sec. 33E-4. Rules of construction.Sec. 33E-5. Definitions.Sec. 33E-6. Road impact fee imposition.Sec. 33E-6.1. Payment of road impact fees.Sec. 33E-7. Road impact fee formula.Sec. 33E-8. Fee computation by adopted schedule.Sec. 33E-9. Fee computation by independent study.Sec. 33E-10. Roadway improvement contributions in-lieu-of-fee.Sec. 33E-11. Impact fee benefit districts and trust accounts.Sec. 33E-11.1. Boundaries of road impact fee districts.Sec. 33E-12. Impact fee expenditures.Sec. 33E-13. Refund of impact fees paid.Sec. 33E-14. Exemptions and credits.Sec. 33E-15. Appeals of administrative decisions.Sec. 33E-16. Vested rights.Sec. 33E-17. Miami-Dade County Road Impact Fee Manual.Sec. 33E-1. Incorporation of provisions by reference. The matters set forth above [in the introductory clauses of Ordinance Number 88-112] are hereby found to be true and are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(1), 12-6-88) Sec. 33E-2. Short title, authority and applicability.(a)This chapter [Ordinance Number 88-112], effective June 4, 1989, shall be known and may be cited as the "Miami-Dade County Road Impact Fee Ordinance." (b)The Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County has the authority to adopt this chapter pursuant to Article VIII, Section 6 of the Constitution of the State of Florida, Section 1.01 of the Charter of Miami-Dade County and Chapters 163 and 380, Florida Statutes. (c)This chapter shall be applicable to land development in the entirety of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(2), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-3. Intent and purposes.(a)This chapter is intended to implement and be consistent with the Miami-Dade County Comprehensive Development Master Plan adopted pursuant to Chapter 163, Florida Statutes. (b)The purpose of this chapter in regulating development is to ensure that all new development bears its proportionate share of a portion of the capital cost of roadway capacity improvements necessary to allow an adequate level of roadway service. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(3), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 08-135, § 1, 12-2-08) Sec. 33E-4. Rules of construction.(a)The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to effectively carry out its purpose in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare. (b)For the purposes of administration and enforcement, unless otherwise stated, the following rules of construction shall apply to the text of this chapter: (1)If there is any conflict between the text of this chapter and any table, summary table or illustration, the text shall control.(2)The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is permissive.(3)The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for," "designed for," "maintained for," or "occupied for."(4)The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or any other similar entity. (5)The word "includes" shall not limit a term to the specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like kind or character. (6)The word "he" means "he or she" and "his" means "his or her." (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(4), 12-6-88) Sec. 33E-5. Definitions.(a)The words and terms listed below are hereby defined for the purpose of this chapter:(1) Adjusted gross income means all wages, assets, regular cash or noncash contributions or gifts from persons outside the household, and such other resources and benefits as may be determined to be income by the County Planning and Zoning Director, adjusted for family size, less deductions allowable under Section 62 of the Internal Revenue Code. (2) Affordable Housing, pursuant to the Florida Housing Planning and Community Assistance Act (Chapter 420, Part VI, Florida Statutes) and for the purpose of eligibility for a road impact fee exemption shall mean: a.With respect to a housing unit to be occupied by very-low-income persons, that monthly rents, or monthly mortgage payments including property taxes and insurance, do not exceed 30 percent of that amount which represents 50 percent of the median annual income for households within Miami-Dade County, divided by 12. b.With respect to a housing unit to be occupied by low-income persons, that monthly rents, or monthly mortgage payments including taxes and insurance, do not exceed 30 percent of that amount which represents 80 percent of the median annual income for households within Miami-Dade County, divided by 12. (3) Arterial roadway means a roadway intended to serve moderate to large traffic volumes traveling relatively long distances. These facilities are characterized by long trip lengths and high speeds and volumes. (4) Building permit shall mean an official document or certificate issued by the Building Official authorizing the construction, alteration or installation of any building, structure or any part thereof. The building permit application plans shall bear the impress seal and signature of a licensed architect or registered professional engineer and indicate the use and occupancy of all parts of the building or structure. (5) Collector roadway means a roadway which is intended to serve as the connecting link for local streets and to provide intraneighborhood transportation. These facilities are characterized by relatively short trip lengths and moderate speeds and volumes. (6) County Manager means the Chief Administrative Officer of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County or his designee. (7) County Public Works Director means the Director of the Miami-Dade County Public Works Department or his designee. (8) County Planning and Zoning Director means the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning or his designee. (9) Development activity, development or activity means any activity for which a building permit is required pursuant to the South Florida Building Code and/or any applicable County or municipal ordinance. (10) Existing development means the lawful land use physically existing at any time during the period from December 6, 1988 through June 4, 1989 and any development or additional development for which the landowner holds a valid building permit as of June 4, 1989. Existing development shall also include the maximum level of development activity for which a previous impact fee was paid under the provisions of this chapter. As used in this chapter, the term "lawful land use" shall not include a land use which has been established or maintained in violation of this chapter or applicable municipal codes. (11) Feepayer means a person intending to commence a proposed development for which an impact fee computation is required, or a person who has paid an impact fee, provided a letter of credit, or made a contribution in-lieu-of-fee pursuant to this chapter. (12) Level of service is the qualitative measure of traffic service provided by a road under a particular volume condition as described in the current edition of the Highway Capacity Manual, Special Report 209, published by the nonprofit Transportation Research Board of the National Research Council serving the National Academy of Engineering. (13) Local street means a roadway which has the primary function to serve adjacent property by providing the initial access to the highway network. These facilities are characterized by short trip lengths, low speeds, and small traffic volumes. (14) Long range transportation plan means the adopted Miami-Dade Transportation Plan or successor document adopted by the Miami-Dade County Metropolitan Planning Organization. (15) Low-income persons means one or more natural persons or a family, the total annual adjusted gross household income of which does not exceed 80 percent of the median annual income for households within Miami-Dade County. (16) Median Annual Income For Households Within Miami-Dade County is equivalent to Median Family Income (MFI) for Miami-Dade County as determined for the current fiscal year by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. (17) Miami-Dade County Metropolitan Planning Organization or MPO means the local government entity designated by the Governor, pursuant to Section 339.175, Florida Statutes, for the management of transportation planning process in Miami-Dade County. (18) Miami-Dade Road Impact Fee Manual or impact fee manual or the manual means the document adopted by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners which contains information, sets forth procedures and implements policies essential to the administration of the road impact fee pursuant to this chapter. (19) Off-site roadway improvement or off-site improvement means any arterial and collector roadway improvement located outside of the boundaries of a parcel proposed for development or platted subdivision parcel excluding those improvements required to be dedicated or improved pursuant to the subdivision or zoning regulations. This definition also includes roadway improvements, including right-of-way dedication, which are located beyond those zoned right-of-way limits specified in Section 33-133, Miami-Dade County Code. (20) Road impact fee, fee, or impact fee means the proportionate share charge required to be paid in accordance with this chapter. (21) Road impact fee schedule or impact fee schedule means the table of impact fee per unit of development used by the Public Works Director in computing the roadway impact fee pursuant to Section 33E-8 of this chapter. (22) Roadway capacity improvement or roadway improvement means any roadway element or select transit capital improvement which will serve to enhance the vehicular movement or increase the vehicular volume in any corridor. The following roadway elements shall be considered as roadway capacity improvements: a.Thru lanes;b.Turn lanes;c.Bridges;d.Drainage facilities that serve to enhance vehicular movement or volume;e.Traffic signalization;f.Sidewalks or bike facilities that serve to enhance vehicular movement or volume;g.Resurfacing of existing roadways including planning and removal of existing paved surfaces where such improvements will enhance the roadway capacity and service level; and h.Select Transit Capital Improvements; andi.Other structural improvements shown by specific studies to enhance roadway capacity. In addition, the following roadway elements shall also be considered roadway capacity improvements when undertaken as components of a complete roadway project: a.Curbs, medians, shoulders, striping, and traffic signage;b.Utility relocation; andc.Sodding and tree planting. Furthermore, the following activities: preliminary engineering, design studies, land surveys, engineering design, right-of-way acquisition, and permitting, shall also be construed as roadway capacity improvements when associated with the construction of any of the aforementioned roadway elements. Expenditures for all such improvements shall be in accordance with Section 33E-12 and implementing provisions of the Road Impact Fee Manual. (23) Select Transit Capital Improvement means a specific transit capital project located inside the Urban Infill Area that has been determined by the Board of County Commissioners to be of strategic value in providing roadway capacity inside the Urban Infill Area pursuant to Section 33E-12(d). (24) Short range transportation improvement program means the five-year roadway program adopted annually by the Miami-Dade County Metropolitan Planning Organization as amended from time to time. (25) Student means any person not living with his or her parent or guardian who is eligible to be claimed by his or her parent or guardian as a dependent under the federal income tax code and who is enrolled on at least a half-time basis in a secondary school, career center, community college, college or university. (26) Total Trips means total outbound trips. (Outbound trips are attributed to the proposed development. Return trips are attributed to the destination.) (27) Unit(s) of development means a quantifiable increment of development activity dimensioned in terms of dwelling units, one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area, hotel/motel rooms, parking spaces, students or other appropriate measurements contained in the impact fee schedule or in the current edition of "Trip Generation, an Informational Study" published by the Institute of Traffic Engineers. (28) Urban Infill Area or UIA pursuant to the adopted Comprehensive Development Plan means that part of Miami-Dade County located east of, and including S.R. 826 (Palmetto Expressway) and NW/SW 77 Avenue and, excluding the area north of and west of I-95, and the City of Islandia. (29) Very-low-income persons means one or more natural persons or a family, not including students as defined herein, the total annual adjusted gross household income of which does not exceed 50 percent of the median annual income for households within Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(5), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 89-53, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 89-130, § 1, 12-19-89; Ord. No. 94-134, § 1, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 00-76, § 1, 6-6-00; Ord. No. 08-135, § 2, 12-2-08; Ord. No. 09-08, § 2, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-6. Road impact fee imposition.(a)Any application for a building permit for development activity within Miami-Dade County shall be subject to the imposition of a road impact fee in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter. All building permits issued after the effective date of this chapter shall be subject to the imposition of the computed impact fee as determined herein. However, any application for a building permit where the required road impact fee payment is made prior to October 1, 1994 shall not be subject to Ordinance 94-134 amending Chapter 33E of the Code of Miami-Dade County and the Miami-Dade Manual provided said building permits are issued prior to January 29, 1995. No such building permit shall be issued by the County or any Miami-Dade County municipality unless and until the applicant has paid such impact fee, or presented a letter of credit for such impact fee in a form acceptable to the Miami-Dade County Planning and Zoning Director, for contributions in-lieu-of-fee as provided in Section 33E-10. This shall not prohibit a feepayer from initiating an independent fee computation study as provided for in Section 33E-9 herein. (b)Notwithstanding the payment of a road impact fee or provision of a contribution in-lieu-of-fee in conjunction with land development activity, other State, County and municipal development regulations may limit the issuance of building or use permits for development activity. (c)Nothing herein shall prohibit any municipality or Miami-Dade County from paying the required impact fee on behalf of any applicant or feepayer. In such an instance, said impact fee payment shall be from other allowable fundable sources other than prior impact fee revenues. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(6), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 90-60, § 1, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-134, § 1, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 94-185, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98) Sec. 33E-6.1. Payment of road impact fees.(a)The feepayer shall pay a road impact fee amount based on the formula set forth in Section 33E-7 (b)Payment shall be made in cash, personal check, cashier's check, or money order payable to Miami-Dade County; however, when a municipality is the permitting authority, payment shall not be made by personal check. (c)No building permit shall be issued by the county or any municipality therein until payment for the road impact fee has been received or a bond accepted pursuant to subsection 33E-6.1(g). The total road impact fee shall be paid prior to issuance of a certificate of completion, temporary certificate of use and occupancy or certificate of use and occupancy for any part of construction authorized by the building permit. (d)Upon receiving notice that a payment proffered for an impact fee is invalid due to insufficient funds, improper execution or for any other reason, the appropriate county or city building department shall have the authority to stop all construction authorized by the permit until payment in full is received. Payment in full shall include the amount owed for the road impact fee plus any penalty amount charged by a bank against the county as a result said invalid payment, plus, pursuant to Section 68.065 Florida Statutes, a service fee of ten dollars ($10.00) or five (5) percent of the face amount of the invalid payment, which ever is greater. (e)If the amount of the impact fee paid is found to have been insufficient for any reason, the appropriate County or city building department shall have the authority [to] stop all construction authorized by the permit until payment in full is received. (f)The County shall have the authority to lien real property for which a Final Certificate of Use and Occupancy (C.O.) has been issued but for which the correct required road impact fee has not been paid in full. Such lien must be filed within three years from the date of issuance of the C.O. (g)Road impact fees exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) may be deferred provided that the feepayer submits either a surety performance bond (the bond) or an automatically renewable, irrevocable letter of credit (the bond), for the total amount of the impact fee. Upon acceptance of the bond by the County Planning and Zoning Department the building permit may be issued. (h)All developments subject to road impact fees paid on or after April 22, 2009, but prior to April 22, 2010, shall be obligated to pay thirty (30) percent of the fee as computed herein. All developments subject to road impact fees paid on or after April 22, 2010, but prior to April 22, 2013, shall be obligated to pay fifty (50) percent of the fee as computed herein. All developments subject to road impact fees paid on or after April 22, 2013, but prior to April 22, 2014, shall be obligated to pay sixty-five (65) percent of the fee as computed herein. All developments subject to road impact fees paid on or after April 22, 2014, but prior to April 22, 2015, shall be obligated to pay eighty (80) percent of the fee as computed herein. All developments subject to road impact fees paid on or after April 22, 2015, but prior to January 1, 2016 shall be obligated to pay ninety (90) percent of the fee as computed herein. All developments subject to road impact fees paid on or after January 1, 2016, shall be obligated to pay one hundred (100) percent of the fee as computed herein. This subsection shall expire on January 1, 2016. (i)Any development subject to road impact fees for which a plat has been filed in the public records prior to January 1, 2009, and for which road impact fees are paid prior to January 1, 2011, shall be charged for road impact fees in accordance with the Fee Schedule in effect for the year 2008. A copy of the 2008 Table 100 and 2008 Table 100A Fee Schedules shall be included in the road impact fee manual until the date of expiration of this provision. This subsection shall expire on January 1, 2011. (Ord. No. 09-08, § 3, 1-22-09; Ord. No. 11-31, § 1, 5-17-11; Ord. No. 12-19, § 1, 3-20-12) Sec. 33E-7. Road impact fee formula.(a)The feepayer shall pay a road impact fee amount based on the formula set forth below. Such fee will be based on the capital cost of roadway improvements required to serve any increase in transportation requirements resulting from proposed development activities together with impact fee administrative costs. The formula to be used to calculate the road impact fee shall be as follows: (1)Total Trips = Proposed Units of Development × Trip Generation Rate × 97% Trips Non-transit × 1/2 × Percent New Trips(2)(Outside UIA) New Lane Miles = Total Trips × Trip Length ÷ 8,100 Average Daily Vehicles Capacity per Lane Mile (Within UIA) New Lane Miles = Total Trips × Trip Length ÷ 8,500 Average Daily Vehicles Capacity per Lane Mile (3)Road Cost = New Lane Miles × $1,951,500 per Lane Mile (Including $151,500 per lane mile for Right-of-Way Costs)(4)(Outside UIA) Net Road Cost = Road Cost - $265,680 per New Lane Mile credited from Motor Fuels Tax and Vehicle License Fees (Within UIA) Net Road Cost = Road Cost - $278,800 per New Lane Mile credited from Motor Fuels Tax and Vehicle License Fees) (5)Inflation Factor = PDC Multiplier from Table of Present Day Cost (PDC) Multipliers by Calendar Year in subsection 33E-8(d). (6)Road Impact Fee = Net Road Costs × Inflation Factor + 2% Administrative Costs(b)In the case of development activity involving a change of use and/or magnitude of use in which a building permit is required, the proposed development shall be required to pay an impact fee only for any increase in the development activity. The impact fee shall be the difference between the computed impact fee for the proposed development activity and the computed impact fee for the existing development activity as defined in Section 33E-5. Any building permit which expires or is revoked after the effective date of this chapter and for which a fee has not previously been paid under this chapter shall be required to comply with the provisions herein. No refunds will be given for proposed development activity resulting in a negative fee calculation. (c)No impact fee payment shall be required for any applicants seeking development activity for which the computed fee amount under the terms of this chapter is less than fifty dollars ($50.00). The above formula shall be used to compute the amount of the fee to be paid using either of the approaches set forth in Section 33E-8 or Section 33E-9, at the election of the feepayer. (d)Any change of use, redevelopment or modification of an existing use which requires the issuance of a building permit and which generates additional vehicular trips shall pay a road impact fee based on the net increase in the impact fee above that which would have been required for the previous use. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(7), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 89-53, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 94-134, § 1, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 09-08, § 4, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-8. Fee computation by adopted schedule. The feepayer may elect to allow the County Public Works Director to use the impact fee schedule set forth below developed pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 33E-7(a). The Impact Fee Per Unit of Development shall be multiplied by the Present Day Cost (PDC) Multiplier for the calendar year in which the fee is paid in accordance with the table in subsection 33E-8(d). (a)The following impact fee schedule shall be used by the County Public Works Director in computing the road impact fee: TABLE 100 ROAD IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE OUTSIDE URBAN INFILL AREA Notes: 1.Rates are derived from Trip Generation, An Informational Report, 7th Edition by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), 2003. 2.ADT = Average Daily Traffic.3.Percentage of New Trips from ITE Generation Handbook, 2nd Edition (retail assumes 10% diverted-link trips in addition to pass-by trips from the formula) and Dade County existing Road Impact Fee Schedule. 4.GSF = Gross Square Feet.5.The trip generation rates of services and sales areas for Car Sales were obtained from a survey study of Miami-Dade County car dealerships. 6.Base year for Impact Fee Per Unit of Development is 2006. TABLE 100A ROAD IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE WITHIN URBAN INFILL AREA Notes: 1.Rates are derived from Trip Generation, An Informational Report, 7th Edition by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), 2003. 2.ADT = Average Daily Traffic.3.Percentage of New Trips from ITE Generation Handbook, 2nd Edition (retail assumes 10% diverted-link trips in addition to pass-by trips from the formula) and Dade County existing Road Impact Fee Schedule. 4.GSF = Gross Square Feet.5.The trip generation rates of services and sales areas for Car Sales were obtained from a survey study of Miami-Dade County car dealerships. 6.Base year for Impact Fee Per Unit of Development is 2006.(b)If the type of activity within a proposed or current development is not specified in the above impact fee schedule, the County Public Works Director shall use the activity most nearly comparable in computing the fee. In making this determination the County Public Works Director shall be guided by the current edition of "Trip Generation, an Informational Study" published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers, and based on the same or similar method of trip generation rate and trip length determination. (c)In determining existing development activity, as defined in Section 33E-5(h) of this chapter, and the units of proposed or existing development, the County Planning and Zoning Director shall use the building permit and certificate of use information contained in the records of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning and municipal building code and zoning regulation administering agencies. (d)Table of Present Day Cost (PDC) Mutipliers by Calendar Year. Source: This table is based on the table of Construction Cost Inflation Factors published August 3, 2006 by Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) Office of Policy Planning for FDOT Fiscal Year 2007 (July 1, 2006 to June 30, 2007). PDC Multiplier values have been interpolated onto a calendar year interval. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(8), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 94-134, § 1, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 09-08, § 5, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-9. Fee computation by independent study. The feepayer may elect, either prior to or subsequent to paying the scheduled impact fee (Section 33E-8), to utilize an independent fee computation study pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 33E-7(a). The feepayer shall provide the County Public Works Director notice of intent to utilize an independent fee computation study prior to, but no later than, the time of application for a building permit. All such studies initiated after the issuance of a building permit shall be completed and submitted to the Public Works Director within six (6) months of issuance of building permit. Nothing within this section shall allow a building permit for development activity to be issued without the payment of a roadway impact fee as provided for in Section 33E-6 herein. (a)If the feepayer elects to utilize an independent fee computation study, the feepayer shall, at his own expense, prepare and present to the County Public Works Director such a study that shall document the basis upon which the value of each of the components of the fee formula set forth in Section 33E-7(a) was determined. The feepayer shall follow the impact fee study methodology contained in the impact fee manual. Subjects of the study shall include the following unless determined otherwise by the Public Works Director: (1)Trip generation rates;(2)Average vehicle trip length;(3)New vehicle trip rates;(4)Non-transit trip percentages.(b)The feepayer shall, at the time the independent fee computation study is submitted to the County Public Works Director, pay to the County Planning and Zoning Director a nonrefundable independent study administrative cost in the amount set forth in the impact fee manual to be used solely by the County for the processing and review of the independent fee calculation study. This amount shall not be credited against the road impact fee payment. (c)The County Public Works Director shall determine if an independent fee computation study:(1)Adheres to the impact fee formula set forth in Section 33E-7(a); (2)Provides complete, thorough, and accurate information; and(3)Is prepared by an individual or entity qualified to perform Traffic Engineering and Operations Studies in accordance with the standards set forth in Rule 14-75.003 of the Florida Administrative Code. (d)Upon approval of the independent fee calculation study by the County Public Works Director, based on his determination that the conditions described in Section 33E-9(c) are fully met, the feepayer shall pay the amount of the fee so computed. (e)Should the County Public Works Director determine that the conditions described in Section 33E-9(c) are not fully met by the independent fee study he shall issue a letter to the applicant stating the deficiencies and his intent to reject the independent fee calculation study unless the deficiencies are corrected. If the County Public Works Director determines that the deficiencies in the independent fee study have not been corrected within sixty (60) working days from the date of the letter of intent, he shall issue a letter rejecting the independent fee study. (f)Any appeals from a decision of the County Public Works Director to reject an independent fee study because of deficiencies shall be reviewed and decided by the County Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council, pursuant to the procedures set forth in the adopted impact fee manual. (g)In his annual review of the impact fee ordinance the County Manager may recommend to the Board of County Commissioners that the type of use and fee rates approved pursuant to an independent study prepared under this section be added to or substituted in the impact fee schedule contained in Section 33E-8 (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(9), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 09-08, § 6, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-10. Roadway improvement contributions in-lieu-of-fee.(a)In lieu of payment of all or part of the road impact fee, the County Public Works Director may accept the offer of a feepayer to construct all or part of an off-site roadway improvement. All contributions in-lieu-of-fee shall be in accordance with the Comprehensive Development Master Plan and the short range transportation improvement program. Such contributions in-lieu-of-fee shall be credited against payment of an impact fee in the amount determined by the County Public Works Director pursuant to Sections 33E-8 or 33E-9. The total amount of contributions in-lieu-of-fee shall not exceed the road cost portion of the impact fee formula in Section 33E-7. Contributions in-lieu-of-fee shall not be applied to the two (2) percent County administrative cost portion of the impact fee which shall remain the responsibility of the feepayer and must be paid at the time of building permit issuance. Where a feepayer seeks to apply a contribution in-lieu-of-fee credit against payment of the road impact fee, the administrative fee portion of the impact fee shall be the sum of: (a) two (2) percent of the contribution in-lieu-of-fee or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) whichever is less and (b) two (2) percent of the remaining road cost not satisfied by the contribution in-lieu-of fee. Previously approved contributions in-lieu-of-fees which are: (1) unused and (2) based on a net road cost which has been subsequently adjusted, shall be entitled to an adjustment equal to the percentage increase or decrease of the net road cost in the road impact fee formula. Previously approved contributions in-lieu-of-fees which are: (1) unused and (2) based on a road cost which has been subsequently adjusted, shall be entitled to an adjustment equal to the percentage increase or decrease of the road cost in the road impact fee formula. Any such adjustment shall only be utilized to offset road impact fees and shall not be refundable. (b)An offer by a feepayer to construct road improvement contributions in-lieu-of-fee must be accompanied by plans in sufficient detail to permit the County Public Works Director to determine that County or State design standards will be used and to determine the cost of such improvements. (c)The County Public Works Director may accept or reject an offer of contributions in-lieu-of-fee. When such improvements are not consistent with standards set forth in the impact fee manual the Public Works Director may reject the offer of contributions in-lieu-of-fee. If rejected, the Public Works Director shall state in writing the reasons for the rejection. Any appeal from such a decision of the County Public Works Director to reject improvement contributions in-lieu-of-fee shall be reviewed by the County Development Impact Committee Executive Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in the adopted impact fee manual. (d)If the County Public Works Director accepts an offer of contributions in-lieu-of-fee, the feepayer shall post a bond or letter of credit with the County Planning and Zoning Director equal to one hundred ten (110) percent of the cost of the agreed to improvement as determined by the County Public Works Director. Upon receipt of such bond, the appropriate County or City entity may issue building permits for that part of the proposed development determined by the County to be satisfied by the contributions in-lieu-of-fee. Release of such bonds for contributions in-lieu-of-fee shall not be issued by either the County or city until such contributed improvements have been completed and accepted by the County Public Works Director or the State. (e)If pursuant to Section 33E-10(a) and 33E-10(b), the County Public Works Director accepts improvements with a cost in excess of the impact fee computed pursuant to Section 33E-8 or Section 33E-9 herein, the feepayer, upon written request, shall be reimbursed for the amount of the excess cost as said cost is determined by the Public Works Director pursuant to Section 33E-10 of this chapter. It shall be the burden of the feepayer to make a written request for reimbursement at the time of building permit application. The feepayer shall only be eligible for reimbursement after such time as the improvement is completed and accepted by County Public Works Director or the State. Reimbursements shall be made from available monies existing within the corresponding benefit district trust fund. No reimbursement shall be made after six (6) years from the date of first building permit issuance. (f)Any provisions for contributions in lieu of road impact fees included as a condition of a development of regional impact development order must be approved by the County Public Works Director prior to approval of the final development order for county development orders or subsequently ratified by the County Public Works Director in the case of municipal development orders. (g)Any claim for contributions in lieu of road impact fee shall have been submitted to and received approval from the County Public Works Director prior to issuance of any building permit intended to use said contributions in lieu of fee and prior to commencement of any road construction or dedication of any right-of-way for which said contributions in lieu of fee are being claimed. (h)Authorized contributions in lieu of fees are not site-transferable and may only be applied against the impact fees due for developments within the parent tract (development property) of the application for which the off-site contributions were made and authorized. Allocations of contributions in lieu of fees to sub-parcels within the parent tract shall be on based on the prorated area (square footage or acreage) unless an alternative allocation or reallocation has been approved by the County Public Works Director. (i)The fee payer shall pay a nonrefundable administrative cost in the amount set forth in the road impact fee manual to be used by the county for processing and review of the contributions in lieu of fee study. This fee shall not be credited against the amount of road impact fees due. (k)Determination of the amount of contributions in lieu of road impact fees to be accepted shall be determined by the County Public Works Director based on a review of the documentation provided by the feepayer and current cost information. Any increase in this amount due to changes in construction plans must be authorized in advance by the Public Works Director. (l)Previously approved contributions in lieu of fee that have not yet been used may be re-adjusted based on the percentage increase or decrease in the net-road cost as recalculated pursuant to Section 33E-7. Any such adjustment may be applied toward payment of road impact fees but shall not be refundable. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(10), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 94-134, § 1, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 01-153, § 1, 9-25-01; Ord. No. 09-08, § 7, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-11. Impact fee benefit districts and trust accounts.(a)To insure that fee-funded roadway improvements will benefit impact fee paying development, all collected impact fees shall be spent only for off-site roadway improvements or for principal and interest payments (including sinking fund payments) on bonds or other borrowed revenues used to fund such improvements, within the road impact fee benefit district described in Section 33E-11.1 in which the fee paying development is located, or within three (3) miles of the border of the benefit district upon prior determination by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, that the project benefits the Impact Fee District where the funds were collected. The full width of the right-of-way of the roadways that form a border of a benefit district shall be considered to be within the district. (b)A separate interest bearing roadway trust account shall be established for each benefit district and all impact fees collected by the County Planning and Zoning Director shall be promptly deposited into the proper trust account, except for general administrative costs paid pursuant to Sections 33E-9 and 33E-12, which shall be directed to County operating fund accounts. Impact fees collected by municipalities pursuant to this chapter shall be transmitted to the County Planning and Zoning Director at the end of each fiscal quarter except for the portion of the general administrative cost designated for retention by the municipality. (c)A financial and management report on the impact fee trust funds shall be prepared annually by the County Public Works Department and submitted to the County Manager within one hundred twenty (120) days of the end of the County's fiscal year. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(11), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 89-130, § 1, 12-19-89; Ord. No. 94-134, § 1, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-98, § 1, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 02-257, § 1, 12-3-02; Ord. No. 09-08, § 8, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-11.1. Boundaries of road impact fee districts. Nine (9) road impact fee districts are hereby established. The boundaries of said road impact districts fee are depicted in Figure 1 and described as follows: (a) DISTRICT 1: Begin at the intersection of the Miami Canal and Homestead Extension of Florida's Turnpike (H.E.F.T., S.R. 821); thence Southerly along the H.E.F.T. to Sunset Drive (S.W. 72 Street); thence Easterly along Sunset Drive to the Palmetto Expressway (S.R. 826); thence Southerly along the Palmetto Expressway to Kendall Drive (S.W. 88 Street); thence Easterly along Kendall Drive to Red Road (S.W. 57 Avenue); thence Northerly along Red Road to Tamiami Trail (S.W. 8 Street); thence Westerly along Tamiami Trail to S.W. 77 Avenue; thence Northerly along S.W. 77 Avenue to the boundary of the City of Miami; thence Northeasterly, Northerly, Southerly and Easterly meandering the boundary of the City of Miami, to LeJeune Road (N.W. 42 Avenue); thence Northerly along LeJeune Road to N.W. 28 Street; thence Easterly along N.W. 28 Street and its Easterly extension to the East right-of-way line of the CSX Railroad; thence Northerly along the East right-of-way line of the CSX Railroad to the Miami Canal; thence Northwesterly along the Miami Canal to the Point of Beginning. (b) DISTRICT 2: Begin one-half mile due East of the most Southerly point of Key Biscayne; thence due West to the Easterly boundary of Coral Gables; thence Northeasterly along the East boundary of Coral Gables to the South boundary of the City of Miami; thence Westerly along the South boundary of the City of Miami to LeJeune Road (S.W. 42 Avenue); thence Northerly, Easterly and Westerly meandering the boundary of the City of Miami to the Northeast corner of the City of Coral Gables; thence Westerly and Southerly along the boundary of Coral Gables to the Tamiami Trail (S.W. 8 Street) at Ponce de Leon Boulevard; thence Westerly along the Tamiami Trail and along the boundary of the City of Miami to S.W. 77 Avenue; thence Northerly along S.W. 77 Avenue to the boundary of the City of Miami; thence Northeasterly, Northerly, Southerly and Easterly meandering the boundary of the City of Miami to LeJeune Road (N.W. 42 Avenue); thence Northerly along LeJeune Road to N.W. 28 Street; thence Easterly along N.W. 28 Street and its Easterly extension to the East line of the CSX Railroad; thence Northerly along the East line of the CSX Railroad to the Airport Expressway (S.R. 112); thence Northeasterly and Easterly along the Airport Expressway to N.W. 27 Avenue; thence Northerly along N.W. 27 Avenue to N.W. 119 Street; thence Easterly along N.W./N.E. 119 Street to N.E. 2 Avenue; thence Northerly along N.E. 2 Avenue to N.E. 121 Street; thence Easterly along N.E. 121 Street and along the North boundary of the Village of Biscayne Park to N.E. 18 Avenue; thence Southerly, Westerly, Southerly and Westerly along the boundary of the Village of Biscayne Park to the intersection of N.E. 119 Street and State Road 5 (S.R. 5); thence Southwesterly along S.R. 5 to the North boundary of the Village of Miami Shores; thence Easterly along said North boundary to the Easterly boundary of the Village of Miami Shores; thence Southwesterly along the Easterly boundary of the Village of Miami Shores and along the Westerly boundary of the City of Miami Beach to the Miami Municipal Channel (Government Cut); thence Southeasterly along the Miami Municipal Channel and along the boundary of the City of Miami Beach to the North line of the F.E.C. Channel (Fisherman's Channel); thence Westerly, Southeasterly, Westerly and Southerly along the boundary of the City of Miami Beach to Norris Cut; thence Southeasterly along Norris Cut and along the boundary of the City of Miami Beach for 6,000 feet; thence Southwesterly to the Point of Beginning. (c) DISTRICT 3: That portion of Miami-Dade County lying Northerly of the following described line: Begin at the North County Line and Okeechobee Road (U.S. 27); thence Southeasterly along Okeechobee Road to the North line of Section 30-52-40 thence Easterly along the North line of Sections 25 through 30-52-40 (N.W. 138 Street) to Red Road (N.W. 57 Avenue); thence Easterly along N.W. 138/135 Street to N.W. 47 Avenue; thence Southerly along N.W. 47 Avenue to N.W. 119 Street; thence Easterly along N.W./N.E. 119 Street to N.E. 2 Avenue; thence Northerly along N.E. 2 Avenue to N.E. 121 Street; thence Easterly along N.E. 121 Street and along the North boundary of the Village of Biscayne Park to N.E. 18 Avenue; thence Southerly, Westerly, Southerly and Westerly along the boundary of the Village of Biscayne Park to the intersection of N.E. 119 Street and State Road 5 (S.R. 5); thence Southwesterly along S.R. 5 to the North boundary of the Village of Miami Shores; thence Easterly along said North boundary to the Easterly boundary of the Village of Miami Shores; thence Southwesterly along the Easterly boundary of the Village of Miami Shores to the North line of the City of Miami Beach; thence Easterly along the North line of the City of Miami Beach to the Atlantic Ocean and the END of the herein described line. (d) DISTRICT 4: That portion of Miami-Dade County lying Westerly of Okeechobee Road (U.S. 27) and the Homestead Extension of Florida's Turnpike (S.R. 821) and lying Northerly of Bird Drive Extension. (e) DISTRICT 5: That portion of Miami-Dade County lying West of Red Road (S.W. 57 Avenue), lying Northerly of the following described line: Begin at the intersection of the West line of Biscayne Bay and Eureka Drive (S.W. 184 Street) extended East; thence Westerly along Eureka Drive to Krome Avenue (S.W. 177 Avenue); thence Northerly along Krome Avenue to S.W. 168 Street; thence Westerly along S.W. 168 Street to the West line of Miami-Dade County and the END of the herein described line, and lying Southerly of the following described line: Begin at Red Road (S.W. 57 Avenue) and Kendall Drive (S.W. 88 Street); thence Westerly along Kendall Drive to the Palmetto Expressway (S.R. 826); thence Northerly along the Palmetto Expressway to Sunset Drive (S.W. 72 Street); thence Westerly along Sunset Drive to the Homestead Extension of Florida's Turnpike (H.E.F.T.) (S.R. 821); thence Northerly along the H.E.F.T. to Bird Drive Extension (S.W. 42 Street); thence Westerly along Bird Drive Extension to Krome Avenue (S.W. 177 Avenue); thence Northerly along Krome Avenue to Bird Drive Extension (S.W. 36 Street); thence Westerly along Bird Drive Extension to the Westerly line of Miami-Dade County and the END of the herein described line; LESS that portion lying within the corporate boundaries of the City of Coral Gables. (f) DISTRICT 6: That portion of Miami-Dade County lying Southerly of the following described line: Begin at the intersection of the West line of Biscayne Bay and Eureka Drive (S.W. 184 Street) extended East; thence Westerly along Eureka Drive to Krome Avenue (S.W. 177 Avenue); thence Northerly along Krome Avenue to S.W. 168 Street; thence Westerly along S.W. 168 Street to the West line of Miami-Dade County and the END of the herein described line. (g) DISTRICT 7: That portion of Miami-Dade County lying within the corporate boundaries of the City of Coral Gables; AND that portion of unincorporated Miami-Dade County lying Easterly of Red Road (S.W. 57 Avenue), lying Southerly of Tamiami Trail (S.W. 8 Street), lying Westerly of S.W. 37 Avenue and lying Northerly of Eureka Drive (S.W. 184 Street). (h) DISTRICT 8: That portion of Miami-Dade County lying Easterly of the following described line: Begin at the Atlantic Ocean and the North boundary of the City of Miami Beach; thence Westerly along the North boundary of Miami Beach to the Westerly boundary of Miami Beach; thence Southwesterly, Southeasterly and Westerly along the Westerly boundary of the City of Miami Beach to the Miami Municipal Channel (Government Cut); thence Southeasterly along the Miami Municipal Channel and along the boundary of the City of Miami Beach to the North line of the F.E.C. Channel (Fisherman's Channel); thence Westerly, Southeasterly, Westerly and Southerly along the boundary of the City of Miami Beach to Norris Cut; thence Southeasterly along Norris Cut and along the boundary of the City of Miami Beach for 6,000 feet and the END of the herein described line. (i) DISTRICT 9: Begin at the intersection of the Miami River and the North line of Section 30-52-40; thence Easterly along the North line of Sections 25 through 30-52-40 (N.W. 138 Street) to Red Road (N.W. 57 Avenue); thence run Easterly along N.W. 138/135 Street to N.W. 47 Avenue; thence Southerly along N.W. 47 Avenue to N.W. 119 Street; thence Easterly along N.W. 119 Street to N.W. 27 Avenue; thence Southerly along N.W. 27 Avenue to the Airport Expressway (S R. 112); thence Westerly along the Airport Expressway to the East right-of-way line of the CSX Railroad; thence Southerly along the East line of the CSX Railroad to the Miami Canal; thence Northwesterly along the Miami Canal to the Point of Beginning. (Ord. No. 09-08, § 9, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-12. Impact fee expenditures.(a)Funds from the roadway impact fee trust funds, including any accrued interest, shall be used only in accordance with Section 33E-11 for the purpose of financing roadway capacity improvements incorporated into the Miami-Dade County Metropolitan Planning Organization's adopted long range transportation plan or short range transportation improvement program, except that an amount not to exceed three (3) percent of the gross receipts shall be used by Miami-Dade County to offset the cost of administering the provisions of this chapter. (b)Highest priority for impact fee trust account expenditures shall be for roadway capacity improvements deemed by the Miami-Dade County Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) as most needed to serve new development. Such determination by the MPO shall consider recommendation from a joint County/municipal committee as provided for in the Metro-Miami-Dade road impact fee manual. This recommendation is not limited to only County or State designated roadways, but may include municipal roads and select transit capital improvements pursuant to subsection 33E-12 (d). Before funds can be allocated or expended for any capacity enhancement projects on local roads within any one Road Impact Fee District, funding for all programmed capacity needs for County arterial and collector roadways, and municipal collector roadways, within said District must have been identified and encumbered, as determined by the Miami-Dade County Public Works Director. Trust account funds shall be deemed expended in the order in which they are collected. Policies to be used in scheduling the expenditure of impact fee trust funds through the long range transportation plan and short range transportation improvement program shall be set forth in the impact fee manual. The County may construct or provide any of the roadway improvement elements listed above or alternatively may contract with a municipality to construct or provide such elements with road impact fees. (c)Roadway trust funds may be expended on roadway improvements to the State road network within the benefit district. Except in the case of roadway improvements to a State road which has vehicular access within the benefit district, no roadway trust fund moneys shall be expended on the State roads network unless such expenditures are reimbursable. Where reimbursable by the State, payments shall be made pursuant to an interlocal agreement between the State and County entered into pursuant to Section 163.01 Florida Statutes. Reimbursements shall be deposited into the appropriate benefit district trust account. (d)Roadway trust funds may be expended on select transit capital improvements provided that the Board of County Commissioners, after recommendation from the Mayor in consultation with the Public Works Director and after public hearing, determines that any such transit use of roadway trust funds would be effective as part of the county's strategy for providing roadway capacity within the Urban Infill Area. Roadway trust funds may only be used for select transit capital improvements within the Urban Infill Area. Only impact fees generated from within the Urban Infill Area may be used for select transit capital projects. Transit projects are to be selected for road impact fee funding on the basis of their expected effectiveness as roadway capacity improvements. (e)Each year the County Public Works Director shall present to the Metropolitan Planning Organization pursuant to the Organization's procedures for their review and approval, the annual program for expenditure of roadway capacity improvements projects utilizing road impact fee trust fund monies, to be included within the transportation improvements program. The Public Works Director shall also present the recommended priorities as determined by the joint County/municipal committee for the expenditure of road impact fee trust fund monies. Trust fund monies, including any accrued interest not assigned in any fiscal year, shall be retained in the trust fund until the next fiscal year, except as provided by the refund provisions of this chapter pursuant to Section 33E-13 (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(12), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 89-47, § 1, 5-23-89; Ord. No. 89-53, § 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 89-130, § 1, 12-19-89; Ord. No. 00-76, § 1, 6-6-00; Ord. No. 08-135, § 3, 12-2-08) Sec. 33E-13. Refund of impact fees paid.(a)If a building permit encompassing feepaying development expires or is revoked, the feepayer shall, upon submission of a written request to the County Planning and Zoning Director, be entitled to a refund of the impact fee paid except that the county shall retain the general administrative cost portion of the fee to cover the cost of the administration of the impact fee calculation, collection and refund. However, no refund shall be provided for impact fees deemed expended pursuant to Section 33E-13(b) or for the cost of completed improvements contributed in-lieu-of-fee. (b)Any fee trust funds not expended by the end of the fiscal quarter immediately following six (6) years from the date the fee was paid shall be returned to the feepayer by the County Planning and Zoning Director with accrued interest. Funds shall be expended in the order in which they are collected and shall be deemed expended for purposes of this chapter when a road contract or agreement obligating all or a portion of the payment of said funds shall be approved by Miami-Dade County. The impact fee manual shall set forth a procedure to be used for identifying the source of monies expended. The feepayer shall be required to submit a written request for refund to the County Planning and Zoning Director before issuance of the refund can be authorized. No refunds of road impact fees will be provided for in the event the feepayer does not request such a refund prior to the expiration of one (1) year following the six-year period from the date the road impact fee was paid. (c)The feepayer may request a refund of road impact fees paid for a development that has been exempted pursuant to Section 33E-14. The amount of the exemption refund shall exclude the administrative cost portion of the fee. Application must be made within one (1) year of the issuance of a certificate of completion or a certificate of occupancy for the subject of the exemption and shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the road impact fee manual. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(13), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 90-60, § 1, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 09-08, § 10, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-14. Exemptions and credits.(a)Governmental or public facilities are exempt from the requirement that impact fees be paid. Such facilities are those parcels, grounds, buildings or structures owned by municipal, County, State and federal governments, the Miami-Dade County School Board and the South Florida Water Management District and related to the operation of those entities and used for governmental purposes including, but not limited to, governmental offices, police and fire stations, airports, seaports, parking facilities, equipment yards, sanitation facilities, water control structures, schools, parks and similar facilities in or through which general government operations are conducted. It is provided, however, the following shall not be considered governmental or public facilities and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter: (1) privately owned properties or facilities leased for governmental operations or activities; and (2) public properties or facilities used for private residential, commercial or industrial activities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the application of the road impact fee to facilities at a County owned airport used for private commercial or industrial activities shall be limited to the extent permitted by federal law or existing contractual commitments with the Federal Aviation Administration. (b)Unless provided for to the contrary in the current effective development order, all development activity which is subject to an existing Development of Regional Impact Development Order adopted pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes prior to June 4, 1989 shall be exempt from this chapter with regard to development approved by such development order. This exemption provision does not apply to those development orders which may have been revoked or determined to be null and void or to any development not authorized in such development order by Miami-Dade County or another unit of local government in Miami-Dade County issuing such development order. This exemption shall not apply to any additional development regardless of whether or not such additional development constitutes a substantial deviation pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes. Any Development of Regional Impact development order amended after January 1, 2009, which generates additional vehicular trips above the previously approved development order shall be not be exempt for said additional trips. (c)Credit for up to the full amount of the net road cost portion of the impact fee shall be given by the County Public Works Director for off-site roadway contributions, or payments that were voluntarily proffered or required under a county or municipal development order issued for a development of regional impact or development of county impact or under other legislative or ministerial action approved prior to June 4, 1989. Credit shall be given to the extent the contribution, payment or construction meets the definition of off-site roadway improvement contained in Section 33E-5(n) of this chapter. Any claim for credit pursuant to this section must be filed with the County Public Works Director by May 23, 1990, and shall be in accord with the standards and procedures for issuance of credits provided therein. Credits shall not be applied to the two (2) percent county administrative cost portion of the impact fee which remains the responsibility of the feepayer and must be paid at the time of the building permit issuance. A credit shall only be considered against the fee due for improvement to those properties encompassed by the previous development order or action contemplating the off-site roadway improvements. Any feepayer claiming such credit shall present documentation of land valuation at time of roadway improvement and/or construction costs, adjusted to current United States dollar values as defined in the impact fee manual. The same shall be considered by the County Public Works Director in determining the amount of credit to be given toward the impact fee. The County Public Works Director shall be guided by the criteria set forth in the impact fee manual. No refunds shall be made under this provision of this section. Any appeal from such a determination by the County Public Works Director shall be reviewed by the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in the adopted impact fee manual. Where a feepayer seeks to apply a credit against payment of the road impact fee, the administrative fee portion of the impact fee shall be the sum of: (a) two (2) percent of the credit or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) whichever is less and (b) two (2) percent of the remaining net road cost not satisfied by the credit. Previously approved off-site road impact fee credits which are: (1) unused and (2) based on a net road cost which has been subsequently adjusted, shall be entitled to an adjustment equal to the percentage increase or decrease of the net road cost in the road impact fee formula. Any such adjustment shall only be utilized to offset road impact fees and shall not be refundable. (d)Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, development activity shall be exempt from the requirement of payment of road impact fees upon a determination by the County Planning and Zoning Director that such activity conforms to the following requirements: (1)The development activity is consistent with the Comprehensive Development Master Plan (CDMP); and(2)Any portion of a residential development activity, which provides affordable housing as defined in Section 33E-5 provided that: a.There shall be no affordable housing exemption for a housing unit priced at more than seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) unless approved by a governmental assistance program for a higher amount; and b.There shall be no affordable housing exemption for a housing unit occupied by persons, families or households having total household assets (excluding pensions, annuities and the like) exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) unless a governmental assistance program has approved a different amount; and c.Applicant must obtain such third party approvals as may be required by the County Planning and Zoning Director or as provided in the road impact fee manual; and d.Applicant must covenant with the county that the housing unit will remain affordable as defined in Section 33E-5 for a period of fifteen (15) years. Other such covenants and agreements may be required as provided in the road impact fee manual or by the County Planning and Zoning Department Director to insure that affordable housing purpose of the exemption is maintained. Housing units that lose their affordable housing status prior to the expiration of five (5) years from the date the exemption was granted shall be subject to payment of the road impact fee in effect at the time said affordable status was lost and the County Planning and Zoning Director shall be authorized to lien the property if necessary to secure payment of the fee; or (3)Any commercial or industrial development activity located within an existing designated enterprise zone as defined in Section 290.0065, Florida Statutes, as the same may be amended from time to time, provided that: (a) the proposed development activity has been granted a property tax exemption under Sections 29-81 through 29-89 of the Code of Miami-Dade County; (b) if such development activity is located within a municipality the municipality has also granted a property tax exemption under the aforesaid Sections 29-81 through 29-89; and (c) the feepayer has furnished all the documentation required by the County Planning and Zoning Director, in accordance with the provisions of the road impact fee manual and has executed a covenant running with the land, in a form approved by the County Planning and Zoning Director, obligating the feepayer, its successors and assigns to comply with the employee residency requirements of Sections 29-83(a) and 29-84(b) of the Code of Miami-Dade County for a minimum of five (5) years; or (4)Any commercial or industrial development activity located within an area approved for tax increment financing in accordance with Chapter 30-A of the Code of Miami-Dade County as the same may be amended, in which the development activity has made specific expenditures from tax increment dollars for improvements to the collector or arterial roadway systems as identified in Section 33E-12 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, as the same may be amended. The total amount of exemption shall not exceed the total expenditure from tax increment dollars for capacity improvements to the collector or arterial roadway system; or (5)Any development activity for which the computed road impact fee amount is less than fifty dollars ($50.00); or(6)Any house move originating within Miami-Dade County; or(7)Any tie-down permit for a mobile home that was legally in place at the permit location on June 4, 1989, or any tie-down permit for which documentation is provided that a road impact fee has been previously paid for a mobile home at the same permit location; or (8)Any alteration, replacement or expansion of an existing structure or the addition of an accessory building shall be exempted provided that the land use has not changed and no additional units are created and no additional vehicle trips are generated pursuant to tables 100 or 100-A in Section 33E-8 (e)If an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33E-14(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4), road impact fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. However, the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund pursuant to this chapter upon submitting a formal application for a refund to and receiving approval from the County Planning and Zoning Director, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. Application for a refund under this section shall be made within one (1) year of the issuance of a certificate of completion or certificate of occupancy for the building. Failure to apply for a refund by the feepayer, within the above-referred one-year period shall invalidate the right for a refund under this section. Notwithstanding the aforesaid, if an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33E-14(d)(2), community development corporations as defined in Section 290.033(2), Florida Statutes (1991), and community-based organizations as defined in Section 420.602(4), Florida Statutes, that have received assistance from Miami-Dade County or the State of Florida in funding predevelopment costs to provide affordable housing to low and very low income families shall have the option of executing a covenant running with the land, in a form approved by the County Planning and Zoning Director, in lieu of payment of road impact fees prior to the issuance of the building permit. Joint ventures of either a community development corporation or a community based organization with a for-profit developer for the purpose of affordable housing development shall also have the right to execute the aforementioned covenant provided that the proposed affordable housing development for which an exemption is being sought has been approved by the Miami-Dade County Office of Community Development. (f)The applicant shall submit a complete application for any exemption from Road impact fees prior to or concurrently with the building permit application. The applicant shall supply all documentation necessary to validate the requested exemption as outlined in the road impact fee manual along with any additional documentation that may be required by the County Planning and Zoning Director. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(14), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 89-130, § 1, 12-19-89; Ord. No. 92-149, § 1, 12-1-92; Ord. No. 92-153, § 1, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 94-134, § 1, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 94-185, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 96-116, § 1, 7-17-96; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 99-92, § 1, 7-27-99; Ord. No. 09-08, § 11, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-15. Appeals of administrative decisions. Decisions of the County Planning and Zoning Director may be appealed by the feepayer to the County Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council. Appeals of the decisions of the Executive Council shall be to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with procedures specified in the adopted impact fee manual. If a feepayer wishes to appeal an administrative decision of the County Public Works Director, or of the County Planning and Zoning Director the feepayer shall first file a notice of administrative appeal on a form specified in the adopted impact fee manual with the Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator. All appeals shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the earlier of: (a) the issuance of a written decision by the Public Works Director or the Planning and Zoning Director; or (b) the Planning and Zoning Director's acceptance of payment of the road impact fee. The feepayer shall, when filing an appeal, submit a letter which provides a full explanation of the request, the reason for the appeal, and any supporting documentation. The Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator shall schedule the appeal before the Executive Council as soon as practically possible. The Executive Council shall vote to affirm, reject or revise the decision of the County Public Works Director or of the County Planning and Zoning Director. The written decision of the Council shall be mailed certified mail, return receipt requested. Any appeal pursuant to subsection 33-314(c)(1) must be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of the receipt of the Council's written decision. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(15), 12-6-88; Ord. No. 90-60, § 1, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 26, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 09-08, § 12, 1-22-09) Sec. 33E-16. Vested rights. Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person to complete any development for which a lawful building permit issued prior to the effective date of this chapter and on which there has been a good faith reliance and a substantial change of position. (Ord. No. 88-112, § 1(16), 12-6-88) Sec. 33E-17. Miami-Dade County Road Impact Fee Manual.(a)In not less than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of this chapter, a Miami-Dade County Road Impact Fee Manual (the impact fee manual) shall be proposed to the Board of County Commissioners for adoption by resolution. The impact fee manual shall be used for the administration of this chapter and shall contain the following: (1)The independent fee calculation methodology relating to Section 33E-9 (2)The independent study administrative cost provided for in Section 33E-9(b); (3)The standards and procedures for issuance of fee credits set forth in Section 33E-14(c); and (4)The standards, procedures and other matters required to administer Sections 33E-7 through 33E-15 (b)The Mayor or designee shall periodically review the contents of the adopted road impact fee ordinance and the impact fee manual and, if appropriate, make recommendations for revisions to the adopted road impact fee ordinance and impact fee manual to the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners shall consider the recommended revision(s) to the Miami-Dade County Road Impact Fee Ordinance and the road impact fee manual at least once every twelve (12) months. The recommendations and the Commission's action shall ensure that the benefits to a fee-paying development are equitable in that the fee charged to the paying development shall not exceed a proportionate share of the costs of mitigating road impacts, and the procedures for administering the impact fee process remain efficient. (Ord. No. 09-08, § 13, 1-22-09)

,Chapter 33F KEY BISCAYNE BEACH PRESERVATION [1]

Sec. 33F-1. Key Biscayne Barrier Island Beach Preservation and Coastal Construction Regulations.Sec. 33F-2. Penalties.Sec. 33F-1. Key Biscayne Barrier Island Beach Preservation and Coastal Construction Regulations.(a) Purpose and intent. It is the purpose and intent of the Key Biscayne Barrier Island Beach Preservation and Coastal Construction Regulations to provide standards for development along the coastal region of the barrier island of Key Biscayne that will properly reflect the unique conditions of said barrier island, to protect environmentally sensitive resources, to maintain and protect existing or reestablished natural ecosystems and related coastal components of the barrier island and Atlantic Ocean, and to maintain or enhance the contribution of such natural resources to the quality of life and economic well-being of Key Biscayne in Dade County. (b) Applicability. The Key Biscayne Barrier Island Beach Preservation and Coastal Construction Control Regulations shall apply to those portions of Key Biscayne seaward of the State Coastal Construction Control Line ("SCCCL"), established and recorded for Key Biscayne on February 19, 1982, pursuant to the provisions of Section 161.053, Florida Statutes. (c) Implementation. After April 14, 1989, all development seaward of the State Coastal Construction Control Line shall be consistent with the requirements of this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, the term "development" shall mean the carrying out of any building or excavation activity, or the making of any material change in the use or appearance of any structure or land, including, but not limited to, construction of buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, clearing, filling, grading, paving, excavation and drilling operations. (d) Coastal construction and excavation setback requirements. (1) Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the terms "habitable major structures," "nonhabitable major structures," and "minor structures" shall have the same meaning as those terms are defined in subsections 16B-33.002(54)(a), (b) and (c), F.A.C., respectively. (2) New structures. Subject to the variance procedures contained herein, no construction or excavation for habitable major structures, except restaurants, shall be permitted seaward of the State Coastal Construction Control Line (SCCCL). Construction or excavation for nonhabitable major structures, minor structures and restaurants seaward of the SCCCL to the Erosion Control Line (ECL) (as determined in accordance with the provisions of Sections 161.141—161.211, Florida Statutes, in connection with the 1987 Key Biscayne Restoration Project) may be permitted subject to: a.When applicable, the granting of a subsequent Coastal Construction Control Line permit by the State of Florida Department of Natural Resources. b.At least fifty (50) percent of the permitted area shall be free of any development. For purposes of this subsection only, the term "development" shall not include excavation or filling to meet applicable flood criteria, pedestrian or cart paths, landscaping and landscaped berms, benches and pedestrian viewing areas, boardwalks or beach access facilities, existing seawalls or other existing shore protection structures. c.No individual nonhabitable major structure, minor structure or restaurant shall be permitted to exceed fifteen (15) percent of the permitted area. For purposes of this subsection only, the term "structure" shall not include pools, lagoons, pool slides, decking, boardwalks, pedestrian and cart paths, benches and viewing structures. d.The height of any nonhabitable major structure, minor structure or restaurant shall be limited to a single story not to exceed twenty (20) feet above either (i) the federal base flood elevation recommended by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or (ii) the design breaking wave crests or wave uprush superimposition established by the State of Florida Department of Natural Resources for said structure pursuant to Rule 16B-33.007(4)(c), F.A.C., whichever is the greater when measured to the highest point of any interior wall. (3) Existing structures. Repairs and restoration of any structure that is seaward of the SCCCL may be permitted by the Department, subject to the following minimum requirements: a.Plans for restoration of existing structures shall include copies of the original plans of the building to be restored, which shall be sealed and certified by an architect licensed in the State of Florida. b.No restoration or repairs of an existing structure may exceed the limits of the existing foundation or height, except as may be necessary to repair or enhance the efficiency of an existing seawall. c.Whenever an existing structure is destroyed by an act of God or is required to be demolished as an unsafe structure, a replacement structure may be permitted under this chapter, so long as the replacement structure does not exceed the foundation and height dimensions of the destroyed or demolished structure and otherwise complies with the requirements of all applicable building codes. In no event, however, may the replacement structure be located seaward of the foundation of the structure to be replaced. d.When applicable, the granting of a permit under this subsection shall be subject to the granting of a subsequent Coastal Construction Control Line permit by the State of Florida Department of Natural Resources. (4) Variances. The Dade County Zoning Appeals Board or the Board of County Commissioners, whichever has jurisdiction, may authorize a variance from the provisions of this chapter pursuant to Section 33-311, Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. No variance shall be granted unless the Zoning Appeals Board or the Board of County Commissioners finds, among the other criteria set forth in Section 33-311, that the following conditions exist in regard to the land concerned: a.That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the property and that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land; and b.That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant; andc.That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the other property in the area in which the property is situated; and d.When applicable, the granting of a variance under this subsection shall be subject to the subsequent granting of a Coastal Construction Control Line permit by the State of Florida Department of Natural Resources. (5) Exhaustion of administrative remedies. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or applied to constitute a temporary or permanent taking of private property without just compensation or the abrogation of vested rights. Any property owner alleging that this chapter, as applied, constitutes or would constitute a temporary or permanent taking of private property or an abrogation of vested rights must affirmatively demonstrate the legal requisites of the claim by exhausting the administrative remedy provided in Section 2-114.1, Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. The procedures set forth in Section 2-114.1 for the review of claim pertaining to the application of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan shall constitute the procedures for the review of claims regarding the application of this chapter. Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, no property owner claiming that this chapter as applied constitutes or would constitute a temporary or permanent taking of private property or an abrogation of vested rights may pursue such claim in court or before a quasi-judicial body unless he has first exhausted the administrative remedies provided herein. (Ord. No. 89-23, § 2, 4-4-89) Sec. 33F-2. Penalties. Each violation of this chapter is a violation pursuant to Section 125.69, Florida Statutes, and is punishable under said section by imprisonment for up to sixty (60) days or a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00), or both such imprisonment and fine. Each week during any portion of which a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. The penalties provided herein shall not be construed as the exclusive remedy for violations of this chapter. All judicial remedies provided by the Code of Metropolitan Dade County shall be available to remedy violations of this chapter. (Ord. No. 89-23, § 2, 4-4-89)

,Chapter 33G SERVICE CONCURRENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

Sec. 33G-1. Title.Sec. 33G-2. Legislative intent.Sec. 33G-3. Definitions.Sec. 33G-4. Concurrency review agencies.Sec. 33G-5. Procedures.Sec. 33G-6. Extension of capacity reservation and application for equitable tolling of traffic concurrency reservation period.Sec. 33G-7. Concurrency information center.Sec. 33G-8. Section 163 Development Agreements.Sec. 33G-9. Exhaustion of administrative remedies.Sec. 33G-10. Extension of permits and reservations of concurrency capacity.Sec. 33G-1. Title. This chapter shall be known as the "Metro-Miami-Dade County Service Concurrency Management Program." (Ord. No. 89-66, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91) Sec. 33G-2. Legislative intent.(1)Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to be inconsistent or in conflict with the legislative intent of the adopted Comprehensive Development Master Plan as specified in Section 2-114(c), Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida; and that legislative intent is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this chapter. (2)Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person to complete any development that has been authorized as a development of regional impact pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes, or who has been issued a final development order, as defined in this chapter, prior to the adoption of this chapter, and where development has commenced and is continuing in good faith. Subdivision plats or waivers of plat approved prior to July 1, 1989, and for which development has commenced and is continuing in good faith are hereby determined to be final development orders for purposes of this section. It is further determined that, for purposes of this section, development has commenced and is continuing in good faith if one of the following has occurred: (a)The applicant has received prior tentative plat approval and received final plat approval within one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent thereto, and has applied for a building permit within a period of one hundred twenty (120) days following final plat approval; or (b)The applicant has received a waiver of plat approval and has applied for a building permit within one hundred twenty (120) days of approval. (3)Nothing in this chapter shall modify or limit the vested rights of a property as to the specific development and time periods authorized or affirmed through the process specified in Sections 2-114.1, 2-114.2, 2-114.3, and 2-114.4 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (Ord. No. 89-66, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91) Sec. 33G-3. Definitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply to this chapter. (1) Capacity. A quantitative measure of the ability of a public service or facility to provide for use of the service or facility. (2) Capital Improvements Element (CIE). The Capital Improvements Element of Miami-Dade County's adopted Comprehensive Development Master Plan. (3) Certificate of use and occupancy (CO). A certificate of use and occupancy, required pursuant to Section 33-8, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (4) Chapter 163 Development Agreement. An agreement as provided for in Chapter 163, Florida Statutes and as further specified in Section 33G-8 herein. (5) Concurrency statements. Written reports issued by concurrency review agencies summarizing existing and anticipated levels of service for those public services and facilities potentially affected by a proposed development subject to a request for development order. The concurrency report shall analyze: (a)Whether public facilities and services meet or exceed the standards established in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan; and (b)Whether the requested development order, if approved, would result in a reduction in the level of the service for affected public services and facilities below the level of service standards provided in the Comprehensive Development Master Plan. This report may be included in any other timely report or recommendation of the agency which is required by statute, ordinance or regulation. (6) De minimis impact. An impact on improved property: (1) that would not exceed more than 0.1 percent of the maximum volume at the adopted level of service standard of the affected transportation facility or facilities; and (2) that is caused by an increase of less than or equal to twice the density or intensity of the existing land use within a single ownership. On vacant land, proposed residential development at a density of less than one (1) dwelling unit per quarter acre or for non-residential uses, proposed development with a floor area ratio of 0.1 or less shall be considered de minimis. De minimis exceptions shall be permitted within the Urban Service Area. The cumulative total of the deminimis impacts, from both improved and vacant properties, shall not exceed three (3) percent of the maximum volume at the adopted level of service standard of the affected transportation facility. (7) Development. Any construction, structures, creation of structures or alteration of the land surface, or use of land or natural resources which requires authorization by Metro-Miami-Dade County through issuance of a development order as defined in this section. (8) Development order (D.O.). Any initial development order, intermediate development order, final development order, or certificate of use and occupancy (CO) as defined in this section. (9) Enforceable development agreement. Any Chapter 163 development agreement or any agreement or development order issued pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes, or any agreement or covenant accepted or entered into by the Board of County Commission. (10) Final development order. Any final plat or waiver of plat approved subsequent to July 1, 1989, or any approved site plan as specified in 33G-3(20) of this section or any building permit(s) authorizing construction of a new building, or the expansion of floor area, or the increase in the number of dwelling units contained in an existing building, or modifications to an existing building or site to accommodate a change in use for which a new certificate of use and occupancy will be required, and any certificate of use and occupancy authorizing a change in the use or authorizing the initial use of a parcel or structure or portion thereof where there is no other final development order in effect, reviewed and approved in accordance with this chapter, authorizing said use. Any site plan recommendation by the Executive Council of the Developmental Impact Committee for any new public educational facility or expansion of an existing public educational facility. (11) Funded and programmed. An improvement included in the current County Capital Budget. (12) Initial development order. Any zoning district boundary change, use variance, new use, unusual use, special exception, site plan approval (other than as defined in 33G-3(20) of this section), Board of County Commission approval of governmental facilities pursuant to Section 33-303, modification of zoning covenant or conditions, any non-use variance or administrative variance, which variance would effectively increase the potential floor area or number of dwelling units allowed in any building or on any parcel, and any recommendation by the Executive Council of the Development Impact Committee for public educational site acquisitions. (13) Improved property. Any property that has been developed with a building as defined by Section 33-1(16) of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County and which possesses a valid certificate of use and occupancy or certificate of completion. (14) Intermediate development order. Any final plat or waiver of plat approved prior to July 1, 1989, any tentative plat, or any permit authorizing the alteration of land topography required pursuant to Chapter 24 or Chapter 28, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (15) Level of service (LOS) standards. The standards for minimum acceptable levels of service contained in the capital improvements element of Miami-Dade County's adopted Comprehensive Development Master Plan. (16) Other service provider. Any State, regional, municipal or other non-Metro-Miami-Dade County agency having construction, operational or maintenance responsibility for public services or facilities as defined herein. (17) Programmed. An improvement that is included as a proposed project in the Capital Improvements Element (CIE). Such improvements are unfunded unless in the current year of the Capital Budget. (18) Programmed for construction. A proposed project that is included in the Capital Improvements Element and scheduled for construction. Such improvements are unfunded unless in the current year of the Capital Budget. (19) Public services and/or public facilities. Services for which level of service (LOS) standards are included in the Comprehensive Development Master Plan (CDMP), whether such services or facilities are provided by government, quasi-public or private providers. Such services and facilities are roadways (traffic circulation), public transit, parks, water supply, sanitary sewerage, solid waste disposal, and floor protection. (20) Reservation. The act of setting aside a portion of available infrastructure capacity necessary to accommodate valid intermediate or final development orders. (21) Service impact mitigation measures. Measures, other than provision of services or facilities as defined herein, which will demonstrably reduce the impact of the prospective development on said services or facilities. (22) Site plan approval. Those site plans approved pursuant to Chapter 33 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County for development on lands having final plat approval prior to July 1, 1990 and located within the Urban Infill Area. (23) Special part-time demand. A project that does not have more than two hundred (200) scheduled events during any calendar year, and does not affect the one hundred (100) highest yearly traffic volume hours. (24) Transportation Improvement Program (TIP). An official document adopted by the Miami-Dade County Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) specifying proposed transportation improvements to be implemented over the coming five (5) years. (25) Urban Development Boundary (UDB). The Urban Development Boundary identified on the adopted land use plan map of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan. (26) Urban Infill Area (UIA). The area of Miami-Dade County located east of, and including Northwest and Southwest 77 Avenue (and its theoretical extensions) including the Palmetto Expressway (SR 826), north of and including SW 232 Street. (27) Urban service area. An area inside the UDB which is already built-up and where public facilities and services are already in place. (28) Under construction. A public facility improvement is considered to be under construction from the date the applicable construction permit is issued by the appropriate State, regional, County or municipal provider. When the improvement is the responsibility of the developer approval of such permit shall require proof of sufficient bonding or letter of credit securing construction. (Ord. No. 89-66, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91; Ord. No. 91-60, § 1, 5-21-91; Ord. No. 92-47, § 1, 6-2-92; Ord. No. 93-84, § 1, 7-29-93; Ord. No. 94-80, § 1, 5-5-94; Ord. No. 95-90, § 1, 5-18-95) Sec. 33G-4. Concurrency review agencies. The following Miami-Dade County departments or their successors shall serve as the concurrency review agencies for the services specified: (1) Department of Planning and Zoning: Flood protection for building permits. (2) Environmental Resources Management: Water supply treatment and storage capacities and wastewater treatment capacity, water quality standards and wastewater effluent standards, and flood protection for initial development orders and all site plan reviews. (3) Fire and Rescue Department: Water supply delivery pressure and fire suppression flow rate. (4) Metro-Miami-Dade Transit Agency: Public transit. (5) Park and Recreation: Parks. (6) Public Works: Traffic circulation (streets, roads, highways) for all development orders; and flood protection for intermediate development orders and all final development orders except building permits and site plan reviews. (7) Solid Waste Management: Solid waste. (Ord. No. 89-66, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 27, 9-3-98) Sec. 33G-5. Procedures.(1)As provided herein, no development order shall be issued where levels of service (LOS) for all public services and facilities will not meet or exceed LOS standards or where the issuance of the development order would result in a reduction in the level of service for any service or facility below LOS standards except under the following conditions: (a)A proposed development will not be denied a concurrency approval for transportation facilities provided that the development is otherwise consistent with the adopted Comprehensive Development Master Plan and it meets one of the criteria listed below: 1.The proposed development is located within the Urban Infill Area; or2.The proposed development is located in an existing Urban Service Area within the Urban Development Boundary and is located in a Community Development Target Area or Redevelopment Area established pursuant to the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, implemented by 24 CFR Part 570; or Chapter 163, Part 3, F.S.; or in an Enterprise Zone established pursuant to Chapter 290, F.S.; or in an Empowerment Zone established pursuant to Federal law; or 3.The proposed development is one which poses only special part-time demands on the transportation system and is located in an existing Urban Service Area inside the Urban Development Boundary; or 4.The proposed development is located inside the Urban Development Boundary, and incorporates within the development a Metrorail, Metromover or TriRail Station, or a Metrobus terminal, as mapped in the Comprehensive Development Master Plan Mass Transit Element, for multiple Metrobus routes; or 5.The proposed development is an office or residential development located in an existing Urban Service Area within the Urban Development Boundary and is located within one-quarter mile of a Metrorail, Metromover or TriRail station, or a Metrobus terminal, as mapped in the Comprehensive Development Master Plan Mass Transit Element, for multiple Metrobus routes; or 6.The proposed development is located in an existing urban service area within the Urban Development Boundary which is determined to have a de minimis impact. (b)Where a project satisfies the criteria in subsection (a) above and causes a two (2) percent or greater impact on the capacity of any Florida Intrastate Highway System roadway which is presently operating or will, as a result of the project, operate at a level of service standard below the adopted level of service standard; then, the County shall require the developer and successors to implement and maintain trip reduction measures to reduce travel by single-occupant vehicles so that the resultant increase in traffic volume does not exceed two (2) percent of the capacity on a Florida Intrastate Highway System roadway. (2)When evaluating applications for development orders and impacts on levels of service and in preparing concurrency statements, concurrency review agencies shall utilize and apply the methods and criteria, and shall collect fees, all as established by administrative order of the County Manager and approved by the Board of County Commissioners. No development order shall be granted by any County board, department or agency until the Board, department or agency has received information reflecting one (1) or more of the items listed below, as applicable. The County department having primary responsibility to serve as administrative agency to a board granting development orders shall summarize and convey this information in its recommendations to the Board. (a)A completed concurrency statement or other notice of approval from all concurrency review agencies addressing the subject application. (b)Where the type of services or facilities for which a concurrency review agency is responsible are not impacted by a particular type of initial, intermediate, or final development order, or certificate of use and occupancy (CO), the concurrency review agency may file a statement of no impact with the applicable permitting department, agency or board specifying the particular types of development order or CO requests which do not impact the specified service or facilities and for which individual concurrency statements shall not be required. (c)The applicable concurrency review agencies, in consultation with the concurrency information center, may designate geographic areas of the County where certain services or facilities have sufficient surplus capacity to sustain projected development of specified types for one (1) to five (5) or more years, as applicable to the service. In areas so designated as having surplus capacity, DO's or CO's for the specified types of development may be issued without requiring individual concurrency statements for the specified services. All surplus capacity designations shall be reviewed no less frequently than annually. (3)All applications for development orders shall specify, in addition to other requirements, the specific uses to which the land or structures will be put, the numbers of single-family and multifamily residential dwelling units, and the number of square feet devoted to each nonresidential use. Applications for intermediate and final development orders shall also specify the phasing of buildout, if applicable, and any service impact mitigation measures to which the applicant agrees to subsequently commit in a recordable written instrument running with the land. (4)Complete applications for initial development orders requiring public hearing shall be transmitted to all applicable concurrency review agencies within twenty-one (21) calendar days of receipt of said complete application, and concurrency review agencies shall replay by transmitting their concurrency statements to the agency receiving the application (application agency) within twenty-one (21) calendar days after receipt of the applications. Applications for initial development orders not requiring a public hearing shall be forwarded to all applicable concurrency review agencies within fourteen (14) calendar days after the application is verified by the application agency to be complete, and each concurrency review agency shall transmit its concurrency statement within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of the application. An application requesting an intermediate or final development order shall be forwarded to all applicable concurrency review agencies within fourteen (14) calendar days after the application is verified by the application agency to be complete. Each concurrency review agency shall reply to the sending agency by transmitting its concurrency statement within fourteen (14) calendar days after the receipt of the application. If a concurrency review agency is required by other Code requirements to provide comments, recommendations or approvals to the application agency, the foregoing response dates may be modified to coincide with the response date otherwise required. Where more than one (1) development order is applied for simultaneously for a development, a concurrency review agency may conduct a single concurrency statement. Combined statements shall contain all information required prior to issuance of the requested intermediate or final development order, whichever occurs latest in the development approval process, and shall be transmitted within the foregoing time periods. (5)All concurrency evaluations shall reflect currently available information or computations concerning the impacts on public services and facilities of existing development, and of development previously authorized by intermediate and final development orders which remain in effect, and of the development for which a development order or certificate of use and occupancy is being requested. (6)No development order shall be issued by any County board, agency or department unless the following conditions are met:(a) Initial development orders: 1.Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, initial development orders may be approved only if all services and facilities (roads, transit, water, sewer, parks, solid waste, and flood protection) meet or exceed LOS standards and the development authorized by issuance of the initial development order must not result in a reduction of any LOS below LOS standards; or the facilities necessary to accommodate the impacts of the proposed development at or above the applicable standards as established in the CDMP are: a.Programmed in the five-year schedule of improvements in the Capital Improvement Element or Transportation Improvement Program;b.In the anticipated projects list in the Capital Improvement Element; orc.In the adopted five-year program or long-range facility plan of the applicable other service provider; ord.Consistent with respect to the CDMP.2.Notice is given to the applicant in the initial development order that the order does not constitute a final development order and that one (1) or more concurrency determinations will subsequently be required. The notice may include a provisional listing of facilities for which commitments may be required prior to the issuance of an intermediate or final development order. Provisional determinations or listing of needed facilities made in association with decisions to approve or deny initial development orders shall not be binding with regard to decisions to approve or deny intermediate or final development orders in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 33G-5(6)(b) and 33G-5(6)(c). (b) Intermediate development orders: 1.Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, intermediate development orders may be approved only if all services and facilities (roads, transit, water, sewer, parks, solid waste, and flood protection) meet or exceed LOS standards and the development authorized by issuance of the intermediate development order must not result in a reduction of any LOS below LOS standards; or the facilities necessary to accommodate the impacts of the proposed development at or above the applicable standards as established in the CDMP are: a.Programmed in the five-year schedule of improvements in the Capital Improvement Element or Transportation Improvement Program; or b.Consistent with the CDMP and contained in the adopted five-year capital improvements program of the applicable other service provider; or c.Consistent with the CDMP and the applicant agrees in a recordable written instrument that no final development order will be requested unless the necessary facilities are programmed or contracted within the time frames specified in Section 33G-5(6)(c). 2.The intermediate development orders, except for commercial quarry permits and permits for rock plowing or wetland permitting for agricultural uses not involving structures, shall include a notice to the applicant that the subject approval does not constitute a final development order and that one (1) or more subsequent concurrency determinations will be required. Such notice shall include conditions that ensure the availability of adequate infrastructure to serve the proposed development as required in Section 33G-5(6)(c). Such conditions shall be binding, and no final development order shall be approved until these conditions have been met or modified by the County board, agency, or department which established same so long as said modification does not result in lowering the LOS below the LOS standard. Intermediate development orders shall also include a listing of any service impact mitigation measures which the applicant agree to provide or utilize and which shall also become a condition of the final development orders. 3.A concurrency statement issued in association with the intermediate development order and based upon conditions enumerated in the development order pursuant to Section 33G-5(6)(b)2., requires reservation of that portion of the available capacity necessary to accommodate the impact of the development until the final plat is approved or for twelve (12) months from the date of the earliest tentative plat approval, whichever occurs first, provided that the tentative plat remains valid. Where any tentative plat approved after December 31, 1998, includes one or more lakes required to be excavated in conformity with the requirements of either the North Trail Basin Fill Encroachment and Water Management Criteria or the Bird Drive Everglades Basin Fill Encroachment and Water Management Criteria the reservation of that portion of the available capacity necessary to accommodate the impact of the development may be extended for an additional six (6) months from the date of the earliest tentative plat approval, provided that application for such extension is made prior to the expiration of the first twelve months and provided further that the tentative plat remains valid thereafter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the actual period of lake excavation shall not exceed twelve (12) months. Such statement may also serve as the concurrency statement required for issuance of final development orders for the subject development provided that: (a) all the conditions for ensuring the availability of adequate infrastructure to serve the proposed development as required in Section 33G-5(6)(c) and as specified in the intermediate development order are satisfied at the time the intermediate development order is issued; (b) the tentative plat has remained valid; (c) the development proposal for which the final development order is requested remains substantially unchanged; and (d) the application for the final development order is approved within twelve (12) months of the date of the original tentative plat approval or within eighteen (18) months of the date of the original tentative plat approval of any tentative plat approved after December 31, 1998, which includes one or more lakes to be excavated in conformity with the requirements of either the North Trail Basin Fill Encroachment and Water Management Criteria or the Bird Drive Everglades Basin Fill Encroachment and Water Management Basin Criteria. Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, if the foregoing provisions of this paragraph have been met, a final development order will be issued, without any further concurrency review. Upon such issuance, the two-year period specified in Section 33G-5(6)(c)4. shall commence as of the date of the approval of the final plat by the Board of County Commissioners. 4.An application to modify a valid tentative plat that has been approved pursuant to Section 33G-5(6)(b)1. or an application to replat a final plat that has been approved pursuant to Section 33G-5(6)(b)3. shall be approved for concurency where one or more services are operating below the LOS standards provided that the application is made within the respective one- or two-year reservation period as established in Section 33G-5(6)(b)3. and 33G-5(6)(c)4. and that the applicable concurrency review agency states in writing that the proposed impact on the substandard service will be no greater than that of the impact of the existing valid development order. The respective capacity reservation period will not be changed by approval of such modification and will continue to be determined by the approval date of the original development order. (c) Final development orders: 1.Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, final development orders may be approved only if all services and facilities (roads, transit, water, sewer, parks, solid waste, and flood protection) meet or exceed LOS standards and the development authorized by issuance of the final development order must not result in a reduction of any LOS below LOS standards; or if the subject development is located inside the Urban Development Boundary and: a.For water, sewer, solid waste and flood protection, the facilities necessary to accommodate the impact of the proposed development at or above the applicable standards as established in the CDMP are: (1)Under construction at the time of issuance of the final development order; or(2)The subject of a binding executed contract for the construction of facilities or the provision of services at the time of issuance of the final development order; or (3)The subject of an enforceable development agreement with the applicant to construct the necessary facilities or provide the necessary services; or (4)Guaranteed by some other means with assurance of the timely provision of the necessary services or facilities.b.For roads and transit, the facilities necessary to accommodate the impacts of the proposed development at or above the applicable standards as established in the CDMP are: (1)Under construction at the time of issuance of the final development order; or(2)The subject of a binding executed contract to construct facilities or the provision of services at the time of issuance of the final development order; or (3)Funded and programmed no later than Year 3 of the County Capital Budget for the construction of roadway and transit facilities or to acquire transit vehicles within the Urban Development Boundary, and no later than the date of issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy if the development is located outside the Urban Development Boundary; or (4)Located inside the Urban Infill Area and programmed in the Capital Improvement Element or Transportation Improvement Program for construction in or before year 3; or (5)Programmed for the construction or provision of service in or before year 3 of the Five-year Capital Facility Plan or work program of the State agency having operational responsibility for transit or transportation; or (6)The subject of an enforceable development agreement with the applicant for the provision of facilities or services; or(7)Guaranteed by some other means with assurance of the timely provision of the necessary services or facilities; or(8)Must be contracted for construction no later than thirty-six (36) months after issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy if the development is located within the Urban Development Boundary, and no later than the date of issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy if the development is located outside the Urban Development Boundary. c.For parks, the facilities necessary to accommodate the impacts of the proposed development at or above the applicable standards as established in the CDMP are: (1)Under construction at the time of issuance of the final development order; or(2)The subject of a binding executed contract for facilities or the provision of services at the time of issuance of the final development order; or (3)Funded and programmed in Year-1 of the County Capital Budget for the acquisition of parkland and the subject development is located within the UDB; or (4)The subject of an enforceable development agreement with the applicant for the provision of facilities or services; or(5)Guaranteed by some other means with assurance of the timely provision of the necessary services or facilities.(6)The necessary parkland must be acquired no later than twelve (12) months after issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy if the development is located within the Urban Development Boundary. 2.Assurance that the facility or facilities will be constructed or acquired and available within the timeframes established by Section 33G-5(6)(c)1.(a., b., and c.) shall be provided by the following: a.The necessary facilities are funded and programmed in one (1) of the County's adopted capital budget or are programmed in the Capital Improvement Element for construction or acquisition. The necessary facilities shall not be deferred or deleted from the Capital Improvement Element work program or adopted one-year capital budget unless the dependent building permit expires or is rescinded prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy. The County will diligently strive to enter into construction contracts for necessary facilities within said time but shall retain the right to reject unsatisfactory bids. Contracts shall provide that construction of the necessary facilities must proceed to completion with no unreasonable delay or interruption. b.In all instances where required park land is not dedicated or acquired prior to issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy, funds in the amount of the developer's fair share shall be committed to the acquisition of the required park land prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy unless the developer has entered into a binding agreement to dedicate an improved park site within the time frame as established in Section 33G-5(6)(c)1.c.6.. Where solid waste disposal facilities to be available for years three (3) through five (5), pursuant to the adopted level of service standard, are not in place and available prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy, a commitment for that capacity to be in place and available to accommodate projected demand in those future years shall be made through the means provided in Section 33G-5(6)(c)1.a.(1., 2., 3., or 4.) prior to issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy. 3.A proposed development that is located within the Urban Development Boundary may receive an extension of the thirty-six (36) month limitation established in Section 33G-5(6)(c)1.b.(8), and receive transportation concurrency approval on this basis, when all the following factors are shown to exist: a.The Comprehensive Development Master Plan is in compliance with State law;b.The proposed development would be consistent with the future land use designation for the specific property and with pertinent portions of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan, as determined by the County; c.The Capital Improvement Element provides for transportation facilities adequate to serve the proposed development and the project; d.The landowner shall be assessed a fair share of the cost of providing the transportation facilities necessary to serve the proposed development; and e.The landowner has made a binding commitment to the County to pay the fair share of the cost of providing the transportation facilities to serve the proposed development. 4.All final development orders shall include, if applicable, a schedule of construction phasing, a listing and schedule of any services or facilities to be provided or contracted for construction by the applicant prior to the issuance of certificates of use and occupancy and certificates of completion or within specified time periods after the issuance of certificates of use and occupancy or certificates of completion as may be required by Section 33G-5(6)(c), and any service impact mitigation measures to which the applicant has committed; and shall require that the applicant or his successor shall comply with the requirements of the final development order. 5.A final plat, waiver of plat, or site plan approved in accordance with Section 33G-5(6)(c)1. shall require reservation of adequate capacity for two (2) years from the date of such final development order approval, during which time any related application for building permit shall be approved. 6.A site plan recommendation by the Executive Council of the Developmental Impact Committee for a new or expansion of a public educational facility shall require reservation of adequate capacity for three (3) years from the date of such site plan recommendation (Final Development Order). 7.A building permit approved in accordance with Section 33G-5(6)(b)3., orSection 33G-5(6)(c)1. shall require reservation of capacity adequate to accommodate the impact of such development for as long as the building permit remains valid. 8.Services or facilities to be provided or contracted for by the applicant and/or service impact mitigation measures to which the applicant has committed as a condition of receiving a final development order shall be recorded in the public record of Miami-Dade County at the expense of the applicant by declaration of restrictions executed by all parties having an interest in, or lien on the land, and running with the land. 9.Applications requesting modification, alteration, demolition or repair of a lawfully existing structure shall not be subject to paragraph 33G-5(6)(c)1., where one or more services are operating below LOS standards, provided that the applicable concurrency review agency states in writing that the impact on the substandard service imposed by the use to be accommodated by the requested modification or alteration will be no greater than the impact posed by (a) the lawful existing use accommodated by said structure on July 21, 1989, or (b) if the use on the property has changed since that date, by the lawful use accommodated by the structure existing upon the date of application and therefore will not result in a reduction in the level of service. The requirements of paragraph 33G-5(6)(c)1. shall apply to a change of use of an existing lawful structure, parcel or portion thereof, where the applicable concurrency review agency states in writing that the new requested use poses a greater impact on the service and facility. The review shall be conducted to determine the additional capacity required to accommodate said use. 10.Issuance of new certificates of use and occupancy for uses of parcels or structures, or portions thereof, which were not previously reviewed under provisions of this chapter are defined as final development orders and must be evaluated pursuant to the provisions of Section 33G-5(6)(c). It is provided, however, that the requirements of paragraph 33G-5(6)(c)1. shall not apply to a change of use of an existing lawful structure or parcel or portion thereof if the applicable concurrency review agency states in writing that the impact on the substandard service imposed by the new requested use will be no greater than the impact posed by the most recent previous lawful use of the subject parcel or structure or pertinent portion thereof and, therefore, will not result in a reduction in the level of service. The requirements of paragraph 33G-5(6)(c)1. shall apply to a change of use of an existing lawful structure, parcel or portion thereof, where the applicable concurrency review agency states in writing that the new requested use poses a greater impact on the service and facility. The review shall be conducted to determine the additional capacity required to accommodate said use. 11.Prior to the issuance of any final development order, the applicant shall furnish adequate bond of one hundred ten (110) percent of cost of services or facilities which he is required to construct, contract for construction, or otherwise provide. Said bond shall be retained by the County until the pertinent facilities or services are accepted by the County or otherwise certified by the County to have been completed in accordance with this chapter and any other applicable County requirements. (d) Certificates of use and occupancy and certificates of completion. 1.Certificates of use and occupancy, and certificates of completion may be issued without requirement for additional concurrency statements by concurrency review agencies where the applicant for the certificates of use and occupancy or certificates of completion holds a valid final development order for the identical use of the subject structure or site or pertinent portion thereof, which final development order contains no conditions requiring the applicant to provide or contract for the construction of necessary services or facilities, and the final development order contains no obligation for the applicant to provide or commit to utilize service impact mitigation measures. 2.Where the final development order contains requirements for the applicant to provide or to contract for the provision of services or facilities, or to provide or commit to utilize service impact mitigation measures, no certificate of use and occupancy or certificate of completion shall be issued until it is certified by the concurrency review agency responsible for the affected service or facility that the required facility, service, or service impact mitigation measure has been provided or contracted for provision. No additional concurrency statements are required prior to issuance of certificates of use and occupancy or certificates of completion in these instances. (Ord. No. 89-66, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91; Ord. No. 91-60, § 1, 5-21-91; Ord. No. 92-47, § 1, 6-2-92; Ord. No. 94-80, § 1, 5-5-94; Ord. No. 95-90, § 1, 5-18-95; Ord. No. 00-48, § 1, 4-11-00) Sec. 33G-6. Extension of capacity reservation and application for equitable tolling of traffic concurrency reservation period.(A) Extension of capacity reservation. (1)Where a final plat, waiver of plat, or site plan has been approved in accordance with Sections 33G-5(6)(c), which provides for a reservation of adequate capacity for two (2) years from the date of such a final development order, an extension of the two-year reservation period may be granted when the applicant demonstrates that development has commenced on a timely basis and is continuing in good faith. However, no such extended period shall exceed five (5) years from the date of the final plat, waiver of plat, or site plan approval. In determining whether a development has commenced on a timely basis, the Executive Council's consideration shall include but not be limited to: (1) the density, intensity, and size of the development, (2) staging, phasing, or timing of development, and (3) economic conditions prevailing during the two-year period immediately following final plat approval. For the purposes of this subsection "continuing in good faith" is defined pursuant to Section 2-114.2 of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County. (2)Any application for an extension of capacity reservation period pursuant to this section shall be filed with the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning no later than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the capacity reservation period or within sixty (60) days after the effective date of this ordinance for those applications whose expiration date has expired or will expire within one hundred eighty (180) days after such effective date. (3)All applications for an extension of capacity reservation shall be filed with the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning on a form prescribed by the Director to accomplish the purpose of this section. The form shall require information relevant and material to the extension of time requested including but not limited to: (a)A letter of intent explaining the basis for the requested extension together with a detailed description of the particular approved development in question including location, and quantity of development or intensity of development. (b)A complete itemization of all development permits issued including but not limited to building permits and certificates of use and occupancy. (c)A complete itemization of all development permits needed to complete development. The itemization shall include but are not limited to building permits and certificates of occupancy as well as a schedule including the period of time for which the applicant claims is needed to complete development. (4)Any application for an extension of capacity reservation filed pursuant to this section shall be reviewed by the Developmental Impact Committee (DIC) Executive Council at a meeting of the Council. (5)Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of an application for an extension of the capacity reservation, the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall determine and notify the applicant whether the application information is sufficient to enable the DIC Executive Council to issue a determination, and the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall request any additional information needed. If the Department of Planning and Zoning Director determines that the information in the application is not sufficient, the applicant shall either provide additional information as requested, or shall notify the DIC Coordinator in writing that the information will not be supplied and the reasons therefor. If the applicant declines to provide the requested information, the DIC Executive Council shall act on the application as filed. If the applicant does not respond to the request for additional information within ninety (90) days, then the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn. If the applicant provides requested additional information, the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall, within fifteen (15) days from receipt of the additional information, determine whether the additional information furnished is sufficient to comply with this request. If the additional information is not sufficient, the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall notify the applicant of the respects in which the information does not comply with the original request. When all requested information is received, the application will be considered sufficient and the applicant will be so notified. (6)The DIC Executive Council shall review the completed application and any additional information provided. It shall consider all written documents, written statements, and information submitted by the applicant or gathered and made part of the record by the Department of Planning and Zoning Director during the investigation and evaluation of the application. The Department of Planning and Zoning Director may solicit and shall accept submission of relevant information from any other appropriate departments or agencies of Miami-Dade County. The Department of Planning and Zoning Director may solicit and shall accept information from any third persons who may possess factual information relevant to the investigation of an application. Copies of such information obtained by the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall be furnished to the applicant, and the applicant shall be given an opportunity to respond to the information. The applicant shall be given an opportunity to address the DIC Executive Council and present evidence and argument in favor of its application, and respond to any questions or concerns raised by members of the DIC Executive Council. (7)Within sixty (60) days after acknowledging receipt of a sufficient application, or receiving notification that additional information requested pursuant to subsection (4) will not be supplied, the DIC Executive Council shall review the application in accordance with the procedures contained herein and shall issue its determination. The time for issuance of the determination by the DIC Executive Council may be extended by agreement between the applicant and the DIC Executive Council. A determination shall contain findings of fact and conclusions supporting the said extension of capacity reservation determination. (B) Equitable tolling of traffic capacity reservation. (1)The Executive Council of the Developmental Impact Committee ("DIC") shall have the authority and duty, after application and hearing, to approve applications for equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period for property adversely affected by an administrative zoning decision issued under Chapter 33, Code of Miami-Dade County, that is subsequently reversed on appeal, and the appellate decision has become final. Executive Council decisions acting on an equitable tolling application may be appealed to the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to section 33-314(C), Code of Miami-Dade County. (2)An application for equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period shall be filed with the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning or successor agency, with notice to the Director of the Public Works Department, no later than ten (10) business days after the later of (1) the date upon which the reversal of the adverse administrative zoning decision by an appellate decision becomes final, or, (2) if applicable, transmittal of the zoning resolution to the Clerk. It is provided, however, that an application for equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period relating to a zoning decision rendered prior to the effective date of this ordinance may be filed within sixty (60) days after the effective date of this ordinance. (3)Standards.(a)For the purposes of this section:(i) Equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period shall mean extension of traffic capacity reservation beyond the maximum time permitted under section 33G-6(A) for an amount of time no longer than the period starting from the time the applicant for equitable tolling first exercises the right to appeal the prior adverse administrative zoning decision until the conclusion of the appellate process, as provided under the Code of Miami-Dade County. The Executive Council shall have the discretion to approve an for equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period for an amount of time less than or equal to the time consumed in procuring the final appellate determination reversing the adverse administrative decision. An applicant for equitable tolling of traffic capacity reservation must exhaust all administrative remedies, including the maximum extension of capacity reservation permitted under section 33G-6(A), prior to filing an application of equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period under this subsection: (ii) Administrative zoning decision shall mean any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in the interpretation of any portion of the zoning regulations, or of any final decision adopted by resolution that is subject to review pursuant to section 33-311(A)(2) of the Code of Miami-Dade Country; (iii) Appellate decision shall mean any subsequent review of an administrative zoning decision, whether by a community zoning appeals board, the Board of County Commissioners or an appellate court with jurisdiction of the matter. (b)An application for equitable tolling traffic capacity reservation period may be granted upon a finding that:(i)The applicant has been aggrieved by an adverse administrative zoning decision and that decision has been reversed by an appellate decision that has become final; (ii)There was no intent to mislead the public or the zoning authority on the part of the applicant for equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period at any time; (iii)Failure to approve the application for equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period would lead to an unjust result and would be contrary to the principles and considerations of fundamental fairness; and (iv)Either:(a)The prior adverse administrative zoning decision prevented the applicant from obtaining a building permit; or(b)The Executive Council determines that because of the prior adverse administrative decision, development of the subject property would have been impracticable. The applicant may demonstrate impracticability by producing evidence, included, but not limited to, showing that in the absence of approval of the equitable tolling application, the property can not be developed or is otherwise unmarketable. (4)All applications for equitable tolling of traffic capacity reservation period shall be filed with the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning on a form prescribed by the Director to accomplish the purpose of this section, and shall comply with the requirements of section 33G-6 of this Article. In addition to the information sought through section 33G-6, the form shall require information relevant and material to the request for equitable tolling including but not limited to: (a)A copy of the underlying original adverse administrative zoning decision, and(b)A copy of the resolution or order reversing the underlying adverse administrative zoning decision.(5)Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of an application for equitable tolling, the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall determine and notify the applicant whether the application information is sufficient to enable the DIC Executive Council to issue a determination, and the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall request any additional information needed. If the Department of Planning and Zoning Director determines that the information in the application is not sufficient, the applicant shall either provide additional information as requested, or shall notify the DIC Coordinator in writing that the information will not be supplied and the reasons therefor. If the applicant declines to provide the requested information, the DIC Executive Council shall act on the application as filed. If the applicant does not respond to the request for additional information within ninety (90) days, then the application shall be deemed to have been withdrawn. If the applicant provides requested additional information, the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall, within fifteen (15) days from receipt of the additional information, determine whether the additional information furnished is sufficient to comply with this request. If the additional information is not sufficient, the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall notify the applicant of the respects in which the information does not comply with the original request. When all requested information is received, the application will be considered sufficient and the applicant will be so notified. (6)The DIC Executive Council shall review the completed application and any additional information provided. It shall consider all written administrative decisions and judicial rulings made part of the record by the Department of Planning and Zoning Director during the investigation and evaluation of the application. The Department of Planning and Zoning Director may solicit and shall accept submission of relevant information from any other appropriate departments or agencies of Miami-Dade County. The applicant shall be given an opportunity to address the DIC Executive Council and present argument in favor of its application, and respond to any questions or concerns raised by members of the DIC Executive Council. Review shall be limited to the issue of equitable tolling and the appropriate appellate determinations. (7)Within sixty (60) days after acknowledging receipt of a sufficient application, or receiving notification that additional information requested pursuant to subsection (5) will not be supplied, the DIC Executive Council shall review the application in accordance with the procedures contained herein and shall issue its determination. The time for issuance of the determination by the DIC Executive Council may be extended by agreement between the applicant and the DIC Executive Council. A determination to grant an application for equitable tolling of the traffic capacity reservation period shall contain findings of fact and conclusions supporting the determination. (Ord. No. 92-84, § 1, 7-21-92; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 27, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 00-78, § 1, 6-6-00) Sec. 33G-7. Concurrency information center.(1)A concurrency information center shall be established by Miami-Dade County. The concurrency information center shall be the Miami-Dade County agency officially responsible for issuing concurrency information. This information may include concurrency analyses conducted as required by the concurrency review agencies as specified in Section 33G-4. The concurrency information center shall provide the public, upon request, information on existing and anticipated capacities and levels of services of all services addressed by this chapter. This information will reflect existing facility and service capacities, planned and committed facility and service capacity increases or extensions, and existing and committed service demands. The center shall compile and analyze information on service and facility capacities and improvement plans and commitments provided by all concurrency review agencies, and information on active initial, intermediate, and final development orders as provided by County permitting agencies, the Department of Property Appraisal, and municipal permitting agencies as necessary. (2)The concurrency information center shall, to the maximum extent feasible, develop and maintain computations of development authorized by active intermediate and final development orders. This information will be categorized and formatted in a form useful for CDMP updates, formulation of concurrency statements, projection of facility capacities, and private sector needs. County boards, departments and agencies which issue development orders and certificates of use and occupancy shall periodically furnish the concurrency information center with records of such approved orders and certificates in electronic or written form suitable for the purposes of the concurrency information center. (3)The concurrency information center shall assist the concurrency review agencies by (a) establishing procedures that equitably and uniformly implement the provisions of this chapter; (b) formulating updated methods and criteria for analyzing applications for development orders and level of service impacts; and (c) updating concurrency analysis fees. Said methods shall be adopted by administrative order of the County Manager and shall become effective upon approval by the Board of County Commissioners. Reasonable fees for conducting concurrency analyses, providing written information, and for providing services to support the concurrency management program may be charged and collected upon establishment of a schedule of reasonable fees by administrative order of the County Manager which shall become effective upon approval by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. No. 89-66, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91) Sec. 33G-8. Section 163 Development Agreements.(1)Pursuant to the Florida Local Government Development Agreement Act (Sections 163.3220—163.3243, Florida Statutes) the Board of County Commissioners has the authority by resolution to enter into a development agreement with any person having a legal or equitable interest in real property located within its jurisdiction for the sole purpose of providing and reserving public facility capacity. Said development agreements shall authorize issuance of building permits for a period not to exceed ten (10) years after issuance of affirmative concurrency findings pursuant to Section 33G-5(6)(c) if: (a)The proposed development meets or exceeds the Developmental Impact Committee (DIC) thresholds established in Section 33-303.1(D)(6)(a)1. through 8., Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County as said thresholds may be amended from time to time; and (b)The Board of County Commissioners finds, after recommendation of the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council, that: (1) the time periods specified in Section 33G-5(6)(b)3. and (c)4. for obtaining development orders and progressing with construction would result in an unreasonable hardship due to the size or complexity of the proposed development; or (2) the development will provide necessary public facilities in an amount which, in addition to satisfying the needs of the development, also remedy an existing deficiency; or (3) the proposed improvements provide significant enhancement to the quality or utility of the affected public facilities; and (c)The proposed development and development agreement shall conform with all applicable requirements of the CDMP and Section 33G-5 except as provided for in subsection (b)(1) above; and (d)The development agreement is limited to the specific land uses and institutes of use for which affirmative concurrency findings have been issued pursuant to Sections 33G-5(6)(b) and (c); and (e)The development agreement shall provide for the application of all subsequent laws and policies governing land development except that said laws and policies shall not preclude the development of the land uses, intensities, or densities as provided for in the development agreement; and (f)The development agreement shall include a schedule of required construction progress, the violation of which shall result in the invalidation of the development agreement. (2)The Department of Planning and Zoning shall review and make recommendations on all proposed development agreements and shall place the same before the Board of County Commissioners for consideration. (3)Procedures to administrate this section and a review fee shall be established by administrative order. (Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91; Ord. No. 91-60, § 1, 5-21-91; Ord. No. 92-47, § 1, 6-2-92; Ord. No. 94-80, § 1, 5-5-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 27, 9-3-98) Sec. 33G-9. Exhaustion of administrative remedies.(1)No person aggrieved by any resolution, order, requirement, decision or determination of any County board, department, or agency in applying the provisions of this chapter to any application or request for the issuance of a development order may apply to the court for relief unless he has first exhausted all applicable administrative remedies provided in the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, Florida. (2)Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or applied to constitute a temporary or permanent taking of private property without just compensation or the abrogation of vested rights. Any property owner alleging that this chapter, as applied, constitutes or would constitute a temporary or permanent taking of private property of an abrogation of vested rights must affirmatively demonstrate the legal requisites of the claim by exhausting the administrative remedies provided in Sections 2-114.1 or 2-114.2, and, if applicable 2-114.3, and 2-114.4 of the Code. The procedures set forth in Sections 2-114.1, 2-114.2, 2-114.3 and 2-114.4 for the review of claims pertaining to the application of the Comprehensive Development Master Plan shall constitute the procedures for the review of claims regarding the application of this chapter. Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, no property owner claiming that this chapter as applied constitutes or would constitute a temporary or permanent taking of private property or an abrogation vested rights may pursue such claim in court or before a quasi-judicial body unless he has first exhausted the administrative remedies as provided herein. (Ord. No. 89-66, § 1, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 90-76, § 5, 7-24-90; Ord. No. 91-24, § 1, 2-19-91) Sec. 33G-10. Extension of permits and reservations of concurrency capacity.(a)Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, the Directors of the Departments of Planning and Zoning, Public Works, Environmental Resources Management and Water and Sewer shall upon application, review and receipt of a fee established by the Board of County Commissioners or 10 percent of the initial permit or agreement fee, whichever is greater, extend for a single period of two years the time within which the permits or agreements described in (c) below are scheduled to expire. Such extensions shall be granted only for those active permits or agreements for development projects that are in substantial compliance with permit conditions and applicable requirements of this code, and that are in effect as of October 1, 2008 or are issued or executed prior to October 1, 2010. Such extensions shall be in addition to, and not in place of, other extensions granted pursuant to other provisions of this Code. (b)Reservations of concurrency capacity under Chapter 33G of this Code for intermediate and final development orders that are either in effect as of October 1, 2008, or become effective prior to October 1, 2010, shall upon application, review and receipt of a fee established by the Board of County Commissioners or 10 percent of the initial concurrency capacity reservation fee, whichever is greater, be extended for two years beyond the date the reservation of capacity is scheduled to expire. Extensions shall apply both to initial reservation of capacity or reservations that have previously been extended through the procedures in Sections 2-114.1, 2-114.2, 2-114.3 or 2-114.4 of this Code. It is provided, however, that extensions pursuant to this section may extend the reservation of capacity only up to, and not more than, five years after final plat approval. (c)Permits and agreements eligible for extension of expiration dates shall include only reservations of concurrency capacity and the following listed development permits and agreements that are issued administratively by the departments and are not subject to initial approval at public hearing. Department of Planning and Zoning: -Extension of concurrency capacity-ZIP 0002 farm buildings-ZIP 0003 construction trailers, etc. Public Works Department: -Paving and drainage permits for new construction-Agreement for construction and maintenance of subdivision improvements (infrastructure construction and maintenance bond) Department of Environmental Resources Management: -Class I coastal construction/wetland-Class I mangrove trimming permit-Class II overflow/outfall system permit-Class III canal right-of-way work-Class IV wetland, permit (noncoastal and non-rockmining)-Class IV wetland rockmining-Class VI drainage nonresidential with contamination-Natural forest community permit-Water extension-Water treatment system (private well)-Industrial waste pretreatment (IWP)-Tree removal permit-Air construction permit, county Water and Sewer Department: -Water and sewer agreements-Water and sewer construction plans-Water and sewer verification forms(d)Such extensions shall not be granted where the director of the responsible department finds that the extension would create an immediate threat to public safety, health or welfare; would delay or prevent the cure of an ongoing violation of an existing law, regulation or development order; would result in material change or adverse environmental impact; would directly serve unreasonably to delay or impede other neighboring development, to the demonstrated detriment of the local economy; would delay utility permits for upgrade or installation of new utilities in existing neighborhoods; would contravene the due process or other legal rights of parties with a direct interest in the timely fulfillment of the requirements of the development order; or would delay or prevent compliance with a court order, federal or state law, or interlocal agreement with any other government. (e)Applications for extensions under this section may be approved for water and sewer agreements only if all plans approvals have previously been obtained and have not expired for the water and sewer extensions for the property covered under said agreement. (f)Any extension of a permit or reservation of capacity sought under provisions of state law, if granted, shall run concurrently with extensions granted pursuant to this section. (g)The expiration date of any development permit, agreement, or reservation of capacity that has been extended for two years pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (f) above shall be extended for one additional two-year period upon application and payment of the applicable fee. Approval of this additional extension shall be subject to a determination by the director of the responsible department that the requirements of paragraph (d) above have been met. Extensions granted pursuant to this paragraph may extend a reservation of capacity only up to, and not more than, five years after final plat approval. Any second extension of a permit, agreement, or reservation of capacity sought under state law, if granted, shall run concurrently with extensions granted pursuant to this paragraph. (h)The expiration date of any development permit, agreement, or reservation of capacity that has not been previously extended for two years pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (g) above shall be extended for two years upon application and payment of the applicable fee, if application is made on or before the expiration of the permit, agreement, or reservation but not later than September 30, 2012. Approval of this extension shall be subject to a determination by the director of the responsible department that the requirements of paragraph (d) above have been met. Extensions granted pursuant to this paragraph may extend a reservation of capacity only up to, and not more than, five years after final plat approval. Any extension of a permit, agreement, or reservation of capacity sought under state law, if granted, shall run concurrently with extensions granted pursuant to this paragraph. (Ord. No. 10-14, § 1, 2-2-10; Ord. No. 11-60, § 1, 8-2-11)

,Chapter 33H PARK IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE [1]

Sec. 33H-1. Short title, applicability and purpose.Sec. 33H-2. Rules of construction.Sec. 33H-3. Definitions.Sec. 33H-4. General provisions.Sec. 33H-5. Park impact fee.Sec. 33H-6. Requirements for local park open space fees.Sec. 33H-7. Requirement for local public park improvement fee.Sec. 33H-8. Fee computation by adopted schedule.Sec. 33H-9. Fee computation by independent study.Sec. 33H-10. Land suitability.Sec. 33H-11. Impact fee benefit districts and trust accounts.Sec. 33H-12. Impact fee expenditures.Sec. 33H-13. Refund of impact fees.Sec. 33H-14. Exemptions.Sec. 33H-15. Credits.Sec. 33H-16. Appeals of administrative decisions.Sec. 33H-17. Vested rights.Sec. 33H-1. Short title, applicability and purpose.(a)This chapter [Ordinance Number 90-59] shall be known and may be cited as the "Park Impact Fee Ordinance."(b)This chapter shall apply to the development of property for residential use located within the boundaries of the unincorporated area of Miami-Dade County. Nonresidential development of property shall not be subject to the terms of the chapter. (c)The existence of public parks has substantial benefits to proximate residential development. These benefits include actual use by residents of such development and aesthetic, recreational, and environmental benefits to the residential area and its population. These benefits accrue to all properties and residents of the area. (d)The purpose of this chapter is to provide not only for the minimum level of service established by the CDMP, but also for the additional public park open space and recreation facilities necessary to adequately serve the impacts and demands of new residential development; and to require that future residential growth contribute its fair share to the cost of additions and improvements to the County's public park system in amounts reasonably anticipated to offset the impacts and demands generated by such growth. This cost does not include operational and maintenance cost. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90) Sec. 33H-2. Rules of construction.(a)This chapter shall be liberally construed to effectively carry out its purpose in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare. (b)Unless otherwise stated, the following rules of construction shall apply to the text of this chapter.(1)If there is any conflict between the text of this chapter and any table, summary table or illustration, the text shall control.(2)The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is permissive.(3)The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for," "designed for," or "occupied for."(4)The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or any other similar entity. (5)The word "includes" shall not limit a term to the specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like kind or character. (6)Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in the singular shall include the plural and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary; and use of the masculine gender shall include the feminine. (7)Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows: (a)"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.(b)"Or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.(c)"Either…or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90) Sec. 33H-3. Definitions. The definitions contained in Chapters 28 and 33, Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, shall apply to this chapter except as otherwise provided in the following definitions: (a) Applicant means the person who applies for a building permit or submits a plat or waiver of plat. (b) Areawide park means a county park designed to fulfill the recreational needs of both incorporated and unincorporated area residents and tourists. They serve large populations and draw users from great distances and include Metropolitan Parks and Special Activity areas. (c) Board means the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (d) Building means any structure having a roof entirely separated from any other structure by space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors or windows or any similar opening and erected for the purpose of providing support or shelter for persons, animals, things or property of any kind. (e) Building permit means an official document or certificate issued by the Miami-Dade County Building Official, authorizing the construction or siting of any building. For purposes of this chapter, the term "building permit" shall also include tie-down permits for those structures or buildings, such as a mobile home, that do not require a building permit in order to be occupied. (f) Community park means a County park typically from twenty (20) to one hundred (100) acres in size that serves a group of neighborhoods. Community parks are actively programmed and staffed recreation areas that retain their park-like identity through landscape design. They are all "drive-to" facilities. These parks are designed to provide a broad range of recreational facilities that are sensitive to the particular needs of the surrounding community. Opportunities can range from staffed recreation and sports centers, athletic fields, and picnic areas to natural landscaped open space. Community parks collectively support larger, more distant, and more diversified District Parks. (g) Comprehensive Development Master Plan (CDMP) means the Comprehensive Plan of the County adopted pursuant to the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act, 163.3161 et seq., Florida Statutes as may be amended from time to time. (h) Contributions mean all dedications of land and/or provision of specific improvements in lieu of cash. (i) County park system or park system means all park and recreation land and facilities owned, operated or maintained by the Department. (j) County wide as it relates to this chapter means both unincorporated and incorporated areas of Miami-Dade County. (k) Credits means the present value of past, present or future provisions made by new developments for the cost of existing or future capital improvements or dedications. (l) Day means calendar days. (m) Department means the Miami-Dade County Park and Recreation Department. (n) Department of Planning and Zoning means the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning or its designee. (o) Development means any construction, structures, creation of structures or alteration of the land surface, or use of land or natural resources which requires authorization by Miami-Dade County through issuance of a development order. (p) Director or County Park and Recreation Director means the director of the Miami-Dade County Park and Recreation Department or his designee. (q) Planning Director means the director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning or its designee. (r) District Park means a large County park and recreation area that serves major portions of the County. The emphasis of District Parks is on intensive recreational activities and programming. This includes the provision of larger facilities, recreation centers, multiple ballfields, sport court complexes, large pools, active and user oriented facilities, and include opportunities for picnicking and fresh water beaches. (s) Dwelling unit means a building or portion of a building designed for or whose primary purpose is for residential occupancy, and which consists of one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one or more persons. Dwelling unit includes mobile home, motel/hotel/rooming house if converted to condominium, servants' quarters or congregate living facilities as that term is defined by Section 400.402, Florida Statutes. (t) Encumbered means monies committed by contract or purchase order in a manner that obligates the County to expend the funded amount upon delivery of goods, the rendering of services or the conveyance of real property provided by a vendor, supplier, contractor or owner. (u) Existing development means the lawful land use which physically exists or for which the landowner holds a valid building permit as of the effective date of this chapter or that maximum level of development activity for which a previous impact fee was paid under the provision of this chapter. As used in this chapter, the term "lawful land use" shall not include a land use which has been established or maintained in violation of this chapter or applicable codes or a use of structure or land which has been abandoned for a period of more than five (5) years shall not be considered existing for purposes of this chapter. (v) Feepayer means a person intending to commence a proposed development for which an impact fee computation is required, or a person who has paid an impact fee, provided a letter of credit, or made a contribution-in-lieu-of-fee pursuant to this chapter. (w) Flood criteria means the minimum finished elevation required for all lands as established and shown on the flood criteria map recorded in Plat Book 53, pages 68, 69, and 70 of the public records of this County as the same may be modified from time to time. (x) Frontage means the distance measured along a road right-of-way. (y) Greenway means a linear trail or park that connects other parks and public places throughout the County by way of canals, railroads, highways, easements and open spaces and provide opportunities for pedestrian, bicycling and horseback use. (z) Impact means the effect of additional population generated by residential construction on the park network in a given area. (aa) Impact determination means the amount of property required or the cost related to the impact of residential dwelling units as calculated pursuant to the formula contained herein. (bb) Land valuation assumptions means the fundamental assumptions and conditions to be used for an appraisal of land for a local park. (cc) Level of Service Standard (LOS) means the Miami-Dade County's level of service standard for the minimum provision of local recreation open space in the unincorporated Miami-Dade County which is two and three-quarter (2.75) acres of local recreation open space per one thousand (1,000) permanent residents. These requirements do not apply to rural and agricultural residences on lots five (5) acres or larger outside the Urban Development Boundary (UDB) as defined in the CDMP. (dd) Local Park means County-provided mini-parks, neighborhood parks, community parks, single purpose, and portions of district parks that serve local recreation needs and that are designated by the Department as local parks on the Property Management inventory on file with the Director. Such parks serve residents of the unincorporated areas living within close walking or close driving distance. (ee) Local Park Share means the amount of the level of service standard that directly addresses that portion of public demand for local recreation open spaces in County-provided local parks as determined by statistical analysis as .00201 acres/person and include mini-parks, neighborhood parks, community parks, single purpose parks, and portions of those district and areawide parks that are used as local recreation open spaces and that are designated as local recreation open space in the facility inventory maintained by the Director. (ff) Local Recreation Open Spaces consist of (1) County-provided mini-parks, neighborhood parks, community parks, single purpose parks, and portions of those district and areawide parks that are used as local recreation open spaces and that are designated as local recreation open space in the facility inventory maintained by the Director; (2) public school and public college playfields that are used as local recreation open space included under a Joint Parks-School Agreement between the County and the Miami-Dade County Public School System or State Board of Governors; and (3) private recreation open space and facilities inside the UDB may also be deemed to be local recreation open space. Collectively, these three (3) types of open space comprise the 2.75 acres/1,000 permanent resident. (gg) Metropolitan Park means a large resource-oriented park, typically including prominent water features. The park preserves valuable natural and historical resources while providing a broad mix of resource-dependent recreation opportunities. (hh) Mobile home dwelling unit means a manufactured structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on an integral chassis and is designed to be used as a single-family dwelling unit, with or without a foundation, when connected to the required utilities. (ii) Mini-Park means a County park which has small passive open space areas typically less than one acre in size. Mini-Parks are usually located in densely populated areas, provide open space amenities unavailable elsewhere in the vicinity, and function as substitutes for private yards in residential areas. Mini-Parks provide a place for relaxation, socialization, recreation, and can also be found along some main traffic arteries where they function as roadway beautification areas. (jj) Multi-family dwelling unit means a structure that contains more than two (2) residential housing units located in a single building or part of a multi-building complex. Units may be rental or owner-occupied. (kk) Neighborhood Park means a County park which is typically from one (1) to ten (10) acres in size and considered a "walk-to" facility. Neighborhood parks contain open play fields, landscaping, and limited recreation facilities (backstops, courts, or tot lots) but do not contain a recreation center or program staff. (ll) Nonresidential development means any development not providing for residential dwelling units within a planned project. (mm) Natural forest community means all stands of trees (including their associated understory) which were designated as Natural Forest Communities on the Miami-Dade County Natural Forest Community Maps and approved by the Board of County Commissioners, pursuant to Resolution No. R-1764-84 and Ordinance No. 89-8. These maps may be revised from time to time by resolution in order to reflect current conditions and to insure that, at a minimum, the canopy and understory of designated natural forest communities are dominated by native plant species. Some upland areas identified as "Environmentally Endangered Lands" (EEL) under Ordinance No. 91-67 may be included. (nn) Off-site park improvement or off-site improvement means any improvement located outside of the boundaries of a parcel proposed for development or platted subdivision parcel but within the same Park Benefit District. (oo)Off-site park open space or off-site acquisition means any land proffered outside of the boundaries of a parcel proposed for development or platted subdivision parcel but within the same Park Benefit District. (pp) Owner means the person holding legal title to the real property. (qq) Parent tract means a parcel of land designated as land to be subdivided for purposes of subdivision. (rr) Park benefit district means a statistical area of the Official Miami-Dade County Park District Map indicating three (3) districts as determined by geographical boundaries. (ss) Park impact fee manual or manual means the document prepared by the County Manager and adopted by the Board of County Commissioners which contains information, sets forth procedures and implements policies essential to the administration of the Impact Fee Ordinance, all pursuant to the standards set forth in this chapter. (tt) Park improvement means preliminary engineering, design studies, land surveys, engineering, permitting, construction and, installation and/or modification of land, structures, landscaping, and/or equipment thereon. (uu) Park land value means a determination of the average value of potential park land located in the same park benefit district for which building permits are being requested, based on the valuation assumptions specified in Section 33H-9(d)(1). (vv) Park service zone means the zone of influence a local park and its facilities have on residents in relation to the amount of time and distance they are willing to travel to a facility, i.e., up to five (5) mile distance. (ww) Residential development means any single-family attached, single-family detached, multi-family attached building or buildings designed to be used as residential dwelling units. Dwelling unit may be one (1) single-family dwelling unit or two (2) or more dwelling units in a planned project or subdivision. (xx) Single-family attached dwelling unit means a housing unit which shares a common wall with an adjoining unit. The common wall must extend from the foundation through the attic. (yy) Single-family detached dwelling unit means a conventional home where one family normally occupies one (1) unit in one (1) structure. May be found in subdivision or on single lot. (zz) Single-Purpose Park means a single-use County park that supports a public local park or recreation function. The park is typically developed for a specific function and draws a more specialized user group than do similar facilities in other local parks. Examples include tennis centers, athletic fields, senior citizen and boxing centers. These parks may be operated by non-profit organizations. (aaa) Unit(s) of development means a quantifiable increment of development activity dimensioned in terms of dwelling units, or other appropriate measurements contained in the impact fee schedule. (bbb) Unincorporated areas means any land in the County not lying within the boundaries of a municipality. (ccc) Urban Infill Area or UIA means that part of Miami-Dade County east of, and including NW/SW 77 Avenue and S.R. 286 (Palmetto Expressway), and excluding the City of Islandia. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-4. General provisions. All residential development is deemed to create an impact and therefore an increased demand for public facilities including public open space, park and recreation facilities. As such, the cost of new public facilities should be borne by new users to the extent new use requires new facilities. Therefore, any application for a building permit within unincorporated Miami-Dade County enabling the construction of residential dwelling units on or after the effective date of this Ordinance shall be subject to the imposition of park impact fees in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter. All Park Impact Fees are due and payable at the same time as the Road, Fire, or Police Impact Fee is paid. (a)Land dedications shall be conveyed by plat and deed. All dedications shall be platted with the first final residential plat that is adjacent to the designated park site or by an alternate arrangement specified in a recordable agreement as determined by the Director. The determination by the Director to accept dedications shall be based on the County's present needs and availability of other park sites within the immediate vicinity of the development. Where land for a public local park is to be dedicated, and/or park improvements for a public local park are to be constructed, a recordable agreement shall be required stating which land and/or improvements will be dedicated for park purposes, before recording the first final plat within the subdivision in accordance with criteria in Section 33H-7(c). (b)All fee payments shall be made before a residential building permit is issued. The Building Official shall not issue a building permit until the applicant has satisfied the provisions of this chapter. This requirement shall not prohibit a feepayer from initiating an independent fee computation study as provided for in Section 33H-9 herein. (c)The public interest, convenience, health, welfare, and safety require that a minimum of two and three-quarter (2.75) acres for each one thousand (1,000) persons residing within unincorporated Miami-Dade County be devoted to local recreation open space. (d)Each park site shall be physically suited for the use intended and shall meet the criteria given in Section 33H-10, Land Suitability. (e)Notwithstanding a feepayer's compliance with this Chapter, other State and County development regulations may limit the issuance of building or use permits for development activity. (f)The County Manager, pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Charter shall propose to the Board of County Commissioners, a Park Impact Fee Manual that shall be used for the administration of this chapter. The manual shall contain the following: (1)The independent fee calculation methodology relating to Section 33H-9 (2)The administrative cost provided for in Section 33H-3, 33H-5, 33H-6(b), 33H-7(a), 33H-7(c), 33H-9(c), (3)The standards and procedures for issuance of fee refunds set forth in Section 33H-13 and fee credits set forth in Section 33H-15, and (4)The standards, procedures and other matters required to administer this chapter.(g)The manual shall be adopted by the Board of County Commissioners by resolution or by ordinance.(h)The County Manager shall periodically adjust the adopted park impact fee ordinance and manual as set forth below. The Manager's action shall ensure that the benefits to a feepayer are equitable in that the fee charged to the feepayer shall not exceed a proportionate share of the costs of mitigating park impacts. The adjusted Impact Fee Schedule shall be on file with the Department of Planning and Zoning, Impact Fee Administration Office. (1)All building permits subject to Park Impact Fee issued within one year after the effective date of this ordinance shall be obligated to pay sixty percent (60%) of the computed fee as determined herein. All building permits subject to the Park Impact Fee and issued more than one year after but less than two years after the effective date of this Ordinance shall be obligated to pay eighty percent (80%) of the computed fee as determined herein. Beginning the third year after the effective date of this ordinance, all building permits subject to the Park Impact Fee shall be obligated to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the computed fee as determined herein. (2)The County Manager shall annually adjust the Open Space Costs (Table 1), Improvement Costs (Table 3), and the park impact fee schedule provided in Sec. 33H-8 by indexing the tables and the schedule to inflation as defined by the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers for the United States, published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. The first indexing calculation adjustment shall occur during the 2006-2007 County budget year using the difference in Consumer Price Index figures for calendar years 2005 and 2006. (3)Unless otherwise directed by the County Commission, any adjustments to the park impact fee, made pursuant to this section, shall be effective the first day of October of each calendar year. (4)If the index is changed by the United States Department of Labor so that the base year is different, the index shall be converted in accordance with the conversion factor published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. (5)If the index is discontinued or revised, such other government index or computation with which it is replaced shall be used in order to obtain substantially the same result as would be obtained if the index had not been discontinued or revised. (6)The County Manager shall annually adjust the park impact fee schedule provided in Sec. 33H-8 by providing credit for any outstanding debt from General Obligation Bonds issued to finance capital projects for local park improvements which meet needs generated by population growth and development. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 92-82, § 1, 7-21-92; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-5. Park impact fee. The park impact fee is the sum of the local park open space fee (less a credit for fees and taxes paid toward capital expansion of local parks) and the local park improvement fee, together with impact fee administrative cost. This impact fee reflects the impact of residential development on both the need for local park open space and the need for improvements to local park property. Any person requesting a building permit for residential development shall pay the impact fee reflected in the impact fee schedule set forth in Section 33H-8 and developed pursuant to the following: (a) Local park open space fee. The local park open space fee formula described in Section 33H-6 shall be the basis for the computation of the local park open space fee. The local park open space fee shall take the form of monetary fee or the dedication of land for a local park or a combination thereof. (b) Local park improvement fee. The local park improvement fee is intended to mitigate the impact of new residential development on the need for local park improvements. The cost to improve local parks is based upon the County's cost to provide those improvements described in Section 33H-7 (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94) Sec. 33H-6. Requirements for local park open space fees. Before a residential building permit is issued, the applicant will be required to pay monetary fees or to dedicate public local park land, or a combination thereof in accordance with this section. Unless otherwise specifically permitted by the Director the fee shall be the monetary fee hereinafter provided in Section 33H-8. Provided, however, in subdivisions containing fifty (50) dwelling units or less, the payment of the fees shall be required. (a) Amount of local park open space monetary fee per dwelling unit. (1)General Formula: The amount of the local park open space fee shall be based upon the average value of potential park land per acre times the local park share of .00201 net acres per person, times population density by type of dwelling unit, less a credit for monies paid through ad valorem taxes toward capital expansion of local parks. Average land value shall be the average value of potential park land per acre located in the same park benefit district for which a building permit is being requested. The local park open space monetary fee shall be determined in accordance with the following: The amount of the tax credit shall be based upon the total outstanding unincorporated area debt service for local park projects, divided by the total number of households in unincorporated areas. (2)Determination of local park land value: The Board hereby establishes in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 33H-6(a)(1) and the valuation assumptions in Section 33H-9(d)(1), the average local park land value per acre by park benefit district is as follows: Table 1 Open Space Cost1; (b) Determination of land dedication in lieu of monetary fees. (1)Prior to the time of the earlier of a public hearing or tentative platting, for developments of more than fifty (50) residential dwelling units, or, if a site plan is not provided and the highest permissible development is more than fifty (50) residential dwelling units, the feepayer may request a local park open space determination by the Director for the purpose of determining whether land dedication in lieu of the open space fee is acceptable to the Director. (2)The Director, based on specific review of the development and the criteria set forth below shall determine whether land dedication or monetary fees, or a combination thereof would be in the best interest of the County. The Director's determination shall be in writing and shall be made within thirty (30) days from the date the application was received and shall be in accordance with the following criteria and for the purpose of maintaining the permanent level of service: a.Ensuring that new local parks are available within a short distance to serve new residential development.b.Addressing future needs by maintaining not less than the minimum permanent level of service for local parks as population growth occurs. c.Completion of public projects started.d.Initiation of new public projects identified in the Multi-Year Capital Plan of the County Budget.(3)Each feepayer shall pay the Department a nonrefundable general administrative service charge in the amount set forth in the Manual for processing the land dedication determinations. (c) Amount of required local park land dedication. In the event the feepayer proposes to dedicate land, and if the Director determines such dedication of land to be in the County's best interest in accordance with Section 33H-6(b)(2), then the amount of land to be dedicated shall be based upon the projected population for the area in question and the local park share of .00201 net acres per person. The actual amount of land to be dedicated shall be determined by the following formula but in no case will the dedication be less than five (5) acres unless determined to be in the best interest of the County by the Director in accordance with Section 33H-10 (1)Determination of the number of dwelling units. The basis for determining the total number of dwelling units shall be the lesser of: a.The actual number of dwelling units reflected on the building permit application, final plat or permitted by a legally recorded covenant running with the land; or b.The maximum number of dwelling units permitted within the proposed development based upon zoning regulations.(2)Determination of population density. Population density, that is, the number of persons per dwelling unit, occupied and unoccupied shall be in accordance with the latest available census data and consistent with the Official Park Benefit District Map of Miami-Dade County indicating three (3) districts (a copy of which is appended as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference) and the population density shall be projected as shown in Table 2. The persons per dwelling unit shall be adjusted periodically based on the most recent census data updates provided by the Department of Planning and Zoning. Table 2 Persons Per Dwelling Unit By TypePark Benefit DistrictsMiami-Dade County The statistical area shall be constantly monitored by the Research Division, Miami-Dade County Planning and Zoning Department which shall submit to the County Commission revised statistical data when appropriate. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-7. Requirement for local public park improvement fee.(a) Determination of local park improvement fee. Before a residential building permit in the unincorporated area of Miami-Dade County is issued, the feepayer shall be required to pay a fee for local park improvements or make improvements at a local park, or a combination thereof in accordance with the following: (1)Projects involving less than fifty (50) dwelling units shall be required to pay the local park improvement fee.(2)For projects involving fifty (50) or more dwelling units, the feepayer may request a local park improvement impact fee determination by the Director to determine whether park improvement fees or credit for improvements at a local park or a combination thereof is acceptable. A feepayer shall only be required to make improvements at a local park in lieu of a monetary fee upon the mutual agreement of the feepayer and the Director. (3)The Director shall determine, based on specific review of each request, whether improvement fees or credit for improvements at a local park or a combination thereof would be in the best interest of Miami-Dade County in accordance with criteria in Section 33H-7(c). This determination shall be in writing and shall specify the amount of fees and/or improvements required. The Director's determination shall be made within thirty (30) days from the date the request was received. (4)Each feepayer shall pay to the Department, a nonrefundable general administrative charge in the amount set forth in the Manual for the processing of all materials relating to improvements at a local park. (b) Amount of fees for local park improvement per dwelling unit. Local park improvement fees are intended to mitigate the impact of the residential use on the need for local public improvements. The cost to improve the local parks is based upon the cost to provide improvements to local parks as described in Table 3 below. The cost as shown in Table 3 below shall be adjusted annually by the County Manager in accordance with Section 33H-4(h). The application of the following formula shall be used in determining the amount of fees to be paid for local park improvements: (1)Determination of the number of dwelling units: The basis of determining the total number of dwelling units shall be in accordance with criteria in Section 33H-6(c)(1). TABLE 31 ITEMIZED BREAKDOWNTHE COST TO IMPROVE LOCAL PARKSCOST PER PERSON 1These values are subject to annual adjustment pursuant to Section 33H-4. (2)Determination of population density shall be in accordance with Section 33H-6(c), Table 1. (3)The cost of local park improvement fees per person shall be the sum of (1) the cost per acre for neighborhood park improvements multiplied by .00060, (2) the cost per acre for community park improvements multiplied by .00060, (3) the cost per acre for district park improvements multiplied by .00054 and (4) the cost per acre for single purpose park improvements multiplied by .00027. (c) Improvements to local public park land in lieu of improvement fee. When the feepayer agrees to supply, build, or install park and recreation improvements to a local park in lieu of or in combination with a monetary fee, the value of those improvements may be credited up to one hundred (100) percent of the local park improvement fee requirements. Such credit is based on a finding by the Director, that the improvements are in the public interest based upon criteria below. The feepayer shall be subject to the administrative, architectural and engineering (A&E), design, and inspection charges and procedures found in the manual. (1)Improvements shall be located within the same park benefit district as the development specified in Section 33H-11 and the improvements shall conform to the park master plan in accordance with Section 33-303 of the Miami-Dade County Code. (2)Improvements by the feepayer are determined to accelerate an approved County park development schedule and reduce the costs that the County would otherwise pay for the improvements as specified in Section 33H-11 (3)The improvements proposed shall be park facilities that will meet the needs of the residents of the development as determined by the Director. Facilities other than those listed as minimum required may be provided where there are local needs identified in the leisure interest survey on file with the Department and where such improvements are equal in value to the improvements listed in Table 3. The Director must approve any and all proposed alternative facilities. (4)A detailed site plan of the facilities shall be reviewed and approved by the Director, and all improvements shall conform to Park and Recreation Department specifications. (5)A one hundred ten (110) percent performance bond or letter of credit shall be posted prior to the time of building permit issuance for all improvements in accordance with procedures set forth in the manual. After the Department of Planning and Zoning receives the bond or letters of credit and the feepayer has paid the computed A&E, design, inspection charges, and the administrative fee, the County may issue building permits for that part of the proposed development for which the park improvement fee is determined by the County to be satisfied by the improvements. Release of such bonds or letters of credit for improvements shall not be issued by the Department of Planning and Zoning until such contributed improvements have been completed and accepted by the Director. (6)All improvements shall become the sole property of the County upon completion and acceptance by the County.(7)The time limit for completion and acceptance of said improvements to meet the requirements as specified above shall be the earlier of: two (2) years from date of a written agreement between the feepayer and the Director or prior to issuance of building permits for more than fifty (50) percent of the dwelling units. (8)Failure to comply with the requirements in Section 33H-7(c)(6) above will result in forfeiture of the bond and/or denial of future development orders. (9)If the Director accepts improvements with a cost in excess of the impact fee computed herein, the feepayer, upon written request, shall be reimbursed without accrued interest for the amount of the excess cost as said cost is determined by the Director pursuant to Section 33H-13. The Director must receive a feepayer's written request for reimbursement within one (1) year from the date of the release of the bond. The feepayer shall only be eligible for reimbursement after the improvement is completed and accepted by the Director. Reimbursements shall only be made from available monies existing within the corresponding park benefit district trust fund. No reimbursement shall be made after one (1) year from the date of the release of the bond. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-8. Fee computation by adopted schedule.(a)The feepayer shall pay a park impact fee amount based upon the impact fee schedule per dwelling unit set forth below developed pursuant to the formula set forth in Sections 33H-6 and 33H-7, together with impact fee administrative costs. The following impact fee schedule shall be used by the Director in computing the park impact fee: IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE1, 2 The open space values in the fee schedule have been reduced by a tax credit to account for monies paid through ad valorem taxes toward capital expansion of local parks. The administrative fee set forth in Section 33H-8(b) is in addition to the impact fees or credits issued. These values are subject to annual adjustment pursuant to Section 33H-4 (b)The cost per dwelling unit shall be the open space fee plus the improvement fee multiplied by 1.05 to accommodate the general administrative charge of five (5) percent. (c)In the case of development activity involving a change of use and/or magnitude of use in which a residential building permit is required, the applicant shall be required to pay the computed impact fee for any proposed residential development activity for which the impact fee has not previously been paid. When any building permit expires or is revoked after the effective date of this chapter and a fee has not previously been paid under this chapter, the applicant shall be required to comply with the provisions herein. No refunds will be given for proposed development activity resulting in a negative fee calculation. (d)No impact fee payment shall be required for any development activity when the total calculated fee is less than fifty dollars ($50.00). (e)If the type of dwelling unit within a proposed or current development is not specified in the above impact fee schedule, the Director shall use the dwelling unit most nearly comparable in computing the fee in accordance with the expanded list of land use categories which is appended as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference. (f)In determining existing residential development activity and the units of proposed or existing development, the Director shall use the building permit and certificate of use information contained in the building or zoning records of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-9. Fee computation by independent study.(a)Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, the feepayer may elect, to use an independent fee computation study. Such study shall calculate the fee pursuant to the formula in Sections 33H-6 and 33H-7. The feepayer shall provide the Director notice of intent to use an independent fee computation study prior to or within thirty (30) days of the issuance of any building permit on the property for which a park impact fee is due. Independent fee computation studies initiated after the notice of intent is filed shall be completed and submitted to the Director within three (3) months after the notice is filed. No building permits will be issued before the payment of the park impact fee. (b)If the feepayer elects to use an independent fee computation study, the feepayer shall, at his own expense, prepare and present to the Director a study that documents the basis upon which the value of the following components were determined: (1)Open space valuation for which a fee is to be paid.(2)Number of dwelling units ascribed to the property.(3)Number of persons ascribed to each dwelling unit. The burden shall be upon the feepayer to provide the data, analysis and reports necessary for the Director to make a determination. The analysis and report must be based on the formula set forth in this chapter. (c)The feepayer shall, at the time the independent fee computation study is submitted to the Director, pay a nonrefundable independent study review administrative charge to the Department of Planning and Zoning in the amount set forth in the Manual. The administrative charge shall be used by the Department to process and review the independent fee calculation study. The administrative charge shall not be credited against the impact fee. (d)If the feepayer elects to use an independent fee computation study, and the subject of the study relates in whole or in part to the property valuation, the feepayer shall, at his own expense and in accordance with the provisions of the Manual, retain a real estate appraiser certified in accordance with Section 475.501, Florida Statutes to prepare the valuation element of such a study. The documentation shall be in accordance with procedures in the Manual. The appraiser shall use the land valuation assumptions contained in this section. The valuation shall be predicated on the following: (1)Land valuation assumptions:a. Definition of value. The most probable price in cash, terms equivalent to cash, or in other precisely revealed terms, for which the appraised property will sell in a competitive market with the buyer and seller each acting prudently, knowledgeably, and for self-interest, and assuming that neither is under undue duress. Fundamental assumptions and conditions presumed in this definition are: 1.Buyer and seller are motivated by self-interest.2.Buyer and seller are well-informed and are acting prudently.3.The property is exposed for a reasonable time on the open market.4.Payment is made in cash, its equivalent, or in specified financing terms.5.The price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale. b. Assumptions. For the purposes of this appraisal, the following shall be assumed: 1.The property is ready to be developed with building improvements and no funds would have to be expended for site development work regulatory permitting or materials. 2.All utilities are in place and are at the perimeter of the site including roads, walks, curbs, water lines, sewer lines, electric service lines, and telephone service lines. 3.The property is filled and compacted to comply with applicable building and zoning codes and flood insurance laws and regulations. The fill and compaction are of sufficient quality to accept the building improvements contemplated. c. Items considered. In the appraisal process, items to be considered include sales of finished lots (ready to build); sales of completed homes and lots; sales of raw land; entrepreneur's remuneration; and cost of land development work. (e)Where the results of an independent fee computation study are at variance with: (1) The County's determination of the park land value; (2) the Director's initial determination of the number of dwelling units ascribed to this property; or (3) the Director's initial determination of the number of persons ascribed to each dwelling unit, the Director shall determine whether to accept all or part of the independent fee study. The Director's decision shall be based upon: (1)Whether it adheres to the impact fee formula set forth in Sections 33H-6 and 33H-7 (2)Whether the study was prepared by a qualified individual or entity as defined in the Manual.(3)Whether the independent fee computation study provides complete, thorough and accurate information.(4)In the case of a land value appraisal, whether the appraisal is in accordance with Section 33H-9(d). (5)Whether the independent fee calculation study, in its entirety, is logical and reasonable.(f)If the Director after considering the factors described in Section 33H-9 (e)(1) through (5) intends to reject either in whole or in part the independent fee computation study, he shall issue a letter to the feepayer. The Director shall state the deficiencies and his intent to reject the study unless the deficiencies are corrected. If the Director has not received an adequately corrected study, within sixty (60) days from the date the letter of intent was received, he shall issue a letter rejecting the study. (g)Any appeal from the Director's decision to reject a study shall be filed in accordance with Section 33H-16 (h)When the feepayer's study has been accepted in whole or in part the feepayer shall pay the amount of the fee so computed and be entitled to a refund of any amount previously paid in excess thereof. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-10. Land suitability. Site characteristics. The location, configuration, size and/or other general factors of the land proposed for dedication shall follow the guidelines in Section 33H-10. All land dedications for park and recreation purposes, shall be reviewed and approved by the Director. The Director shall consider: (1)Size: The size of the parcel shall be expressed in net acres. The net acre calculation shall exclude street right-of-way, existing and proposed easements, borrow pits, lakes, other man-made and natural conditions which restrict or impede the intended use of such areas for local park and recreation purposes. Five (5) net acres is the minimum acceptable size for local parks. Smaller sites may only be accepted, at the sole discretion of the Department, if: a.they meet the provisions in Section 33H-10(7), "Traditional Neighborhood Development" (Section 33-284.46, Miami-Dade County Code), or b.the site may presently or in the future be combined with other public park properties, orc.the site is part of an "Urban Center District," ord.the site will be maintained by other than County funding.(2)Unity: The land to be dedicated shall form a single parcel except where two (2) or more parcels would be in the public interest.(3)Shape: The parcel shall be usable for recreational activities as identified in Table 2 and other active and passive leisure pursuits. (4)Location: The parcel to be dedicated shall be located within the same park benefit district and/or park service zone as the development. (5)Access: Public access to the parcel to be dedicated shall be provided by improved public street frontage.(6)Usability: A dedicated parcel shall meet the following criteria:a.The parcel is platted and ready to be developed so that no funds would be required to be expended for site development.b.All utilities are in place and are at the perimeter of the site and include roads, walks, curbs, water lines, sewer lines, electric service lines, and telephone service lines. c.All utilities are of sufficient quality and quantity to adequately serve the site.d.The parcel is filled and compacted to comply with all applicable subdivision codes, building and zoning codes, and flood insurance laws and regulations. The fill and compaction are of sufficient quality to accept the building improvements. (7)Sensitive land: The Board of County Commissioners hereby finds that steep slopes, canals, lakes, watercourses, beaches, golf courses, and wetlands shall not constitute usable land for local recreation activities. However, credit may be given to designated pine and hammock forested lands identified as "Natural Forest Community" in Ordinance No. 89-8, designated sites identified as "Environmentally Endangered Lands" (EEL). (Chapter 24A of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County), and listed on the A or B Acquisition Lists, and to sites with aesthetic or historic value where passive use, conservation, and preservation objectives are consistent with neighborhood and community needs. (a)Designated sites containing "Natural Forest Communities or EEL," may be considered for up to a maximum of fifty (50) percent credit toward the park open space fee requirement. In all instances, a minimum of fifty (50) percent of the total land dedication requirements must be suitable for local park open space use. (b)The balance of the park open space fee not receiving credit as specified above, shall be paid by the applicant in accordance to the provisions of Section 33H-6 herein. (c)In cases of natural or historical sites which are exceptional or unique, areas less than five (5) acres may be considered.(8)Plans: County, regional and State plans shall be taken into consideration when evaluating land dedication.(9)The Director shall determine, based on specific review of each application, whether the proposed site meets the requirements within this section. The Director's determination shall be in writing and shall specify the reasons the site was approved or denied credit. The Director's determination shall be made within thirty (30) days from the date the request was received. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-11. Impact fee benefit districts and trust accounts.(a)To insure that fees collected will benefit feepaying developments, all local park open space fees and local park improvement fees paid in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited in the "Local Park Trust Fund," a combination of interest bearing trust accounts for each park benefit district for local park open space and local park improvements. The fund shall be established and maintained by the County Finance Department with fees accountable by the Finance Division, Park and Recreation Department. (b)Park benefit districts shall correspond to the Miami-Dade County Park Benefit District map indicating three (3) districts. These benefit districts are delineated in Exhibit A and described in detail in Exhibit A.1 which attachments are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. (c)All park impact fees collected by the Department of Planning and Zoning shall be promptly deposited into the proper account in the local park trust fund. General administrative charges collected by the Department of Planning and Zoning shall be directed to the park impact fee administrative fund account for the purpose of paying the cost of administering determinations of credits, contributions, suitability and this chapter. (d)Architectural and engineering, design and inspection charges for public park improvements shall be deposited into the Improvement Fee Account within the respective Park Benefit District. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98) Sec. 33H-12. Impact fee expenditures.(a)Except as otherwise provided herein, funds from the local park trust funds, including any accrued interest, shall be limited to the financing of park acquisition, park expansion, park improvements to real property, capital facilities (including start-up equipement and technology), or for principal and interest payments (including sinking fund payments) on bonds or other borrowed revenues. Such funds shall only be used to mitigate the impact of and benefit new development within the respective park benefit districts from which the fees are collected or for projects in other park benefit districts which benefit the park benefit district from which the funds were collected. Trust account funds may be used to purchase additional land from a feepayer where such purchase is consistent with the purpose of this chapter or for excess improvement costs approved in accordance with Section 33H-7(c)(8). (b)Trust account funds shall be deemed expended in the order in which they are collected. Policies to be used in scheduling the expenditure of local park trust funds shall be set forth in the manual. (c)If the Miami-Dade County standards for local parks have been met within the park benefit district, the Board of County Commissioners following a public hearing, may authorize the County Manager or his designee, to expend the funds for land acquisition or improvements in an adjacent benefit district or within the prescribed park service zone. Said authorization shall only be permitted upon a finding that the expenditure will mitigate the impacts of and will benefit the residential development paying the fees in question. (d)The County Manager shall periodically review this chapter and the park impact fee manual and, if appropriate, make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners for revisions to this chapter and the park impact fee manual. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the benefits to a fee paying development are equitable in that the fee charged to the paying development shall not exceed a proportionate fair share of the costs of mitigating park impacts of new developments, and that the procedures for administering the impact fee shall remain efficient. Additionally, within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the end of the fiscal year, the Office of Capital Improvements shall submit to the County Manager a financial and management report on the impact fee trust funds. No later than thirty (30) days after submission of the report, the County Manager shall conduct a public meeting, for the purpose of presenting the report and receiving public comment on the report as well as the impact fee program. This meeting shall be advertised at least seven (7) days in advance in a newspaper of general circulation. No later than thirty (30) days after the public meeting, the County Manager shall schedule the report, which shall serve as the County's Annual Impact Fee Report, for the Board of County Commissioner's consideration. The County Manager shall provide a companion report to the Board advising of any County Manager recommended impact fee program changes and detailing comments received from the annual impact fee public meeting. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-13. Refund of impact fees.(a)If a residential building permit encompassing feepaying development expires or is revoked prior to final inspection, the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund without interest of the impact fee minus seven and one-half (7½) percent general administrative fee. However, no refund shall be provided for impact fees deemed expended pursuant to Section 33H-12(b) and (c) or for the cost of completed improvements contributed in-lieu-of-fee except as provided in Section 33H-7(c) herein and as specified in the manual. (b)Any impact fee trust funds not expended by the end of the fiscal quarter immediately following six (6) years from the date the fee was paid shall be returned to the feepayer by the Planning and Zoning Director with accrued interest. The feepayer shall be required to submit a written request for refund to the Planning and Zoning Director before issuance of the refund can be authorized. No refunds of park impact fees will be provided for in the event the feepayer does not request such a refund prior to the expiration of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately following the six-year period from the date the park impact fee was paid. Developments of regional impact whose long term buildout and whose development has been approved by the Board of County Commissioners are exempt from this time frame. (c)Fees shall be deemed expended for purposes of this chapter when any portion of the payment of the fee, except for the general administrative portion of the fee, is encumbered by contract or agreement by Miami-Dade County. The manual shall set forth a procedure to be used for identifying the source of monies expended. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98) Sec. 33H-14. Exemptions.(a)The following shall be exempted from payment of park impact fees:(1)Alterations, expansion or replacement of existing dwelling unit(s) where no additional dwelling units are created and no additional population is generated. (2)The construction of accessory buildings or structures which will not create additional dwelling units.(3)The issuance of a tie-down permit on a mobile home on which applicable park impact fee has previously been paid.(4)The re-occupancy of a mobile home space on which applicable park impact fee has previously been paid.(5)The replacement of a dwelling unit(s) which replacement meets the requirements of Section 104.3 (D), South Florida Building Code (replacement necessitated by partial destruction). (b)All development activity permitted by an existing development of regional impact development order (D.O.) adopted pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes, approved prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be exempt from this chapter unless otherwise provided in the development order. This exemption provision does not apply to those development orders which have been revoked or determined to be null and void or to any development not authorized in such development order by Miami-Dade County. This exemption shall not apply to any additional development regardless of whether or not such additional development constitutes a substantial deviation pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes. (c)The following developments shall be exempt from the requirement that impact fees be paid, subject to an application by the feepayer to the Planning and Zoning Director and a determination by the Planning and Zoning Director that the proposed development activity is consistent with the CDMP that such residential development activity, or portion thereof, which provides affordable housing as defined in the "Florida Affordable Housing Act of 1986," Section 420.602(3)(a) (very low income) or (b) (low income), Florida Statutes (1987) and amendments thereto. (d)An exemption must be claimed by the feepayer prior to paying the impact fee. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed to have been waived by feepayer. If an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33H-14(c), impact fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. However, the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund pursuant to this chapter upon submitting a formal application for a refund to and receiving approval from the Planning and Zoning Director, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. Application for a refund under this section shall be made within one (1) year of the later of: (1) the effective date of this ordinance or (2) the issuance of a certificate of completion or a certificate of use for the building. Failure to apply for a refund by the feepayer, within the above referred one-year period shall invalidate the right for a refund under this section. Notwithstanding the aforesaid, if an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33H-14(c), community development corporations (CDC) as defined in Section 290.033(2) and community-based organizations (CBO) as defined in Section 420.602(5), Florida Statutes (1991) that have received assistance from Metropolitan Miami-Dade County or the State of Florida in funding predevelopment costs to provide affordable housing to low and very low income families shall have the option of executing a covenant running with the land, in a form approved by the Planning and Zoning Director, in lieu of payment of impact fees prior to the issuance of the building permit, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. Joint ventures of either a CDC or a CBO with a for-profit developer, whose proposed affordable housing development has been approved by the Miami-Dade County Office of Community Development, shall also have the right to execute the aforesaid covenant. (e)An exemption must be claimed by the feepayer at the time of the application for a building permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed to have been waived by the feepayer. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 92-153, § 4, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33H-15. Credits.(a) Credits for Local Park Open Space Fee. (1) Credit for past open space. Credit for up to one hundred (100) percent of the Local Park Open Space Fee shall be given by the Director for dedication of land for a local park, fee-in-lieu of land dedication, or contributions of improvements at a local park in-lieu-of open space that were voluntarily proffered or required under a County development order issued for a development of regional impact or under other final county action approved prior to the date of implementation (June 29, 1990) of this chapter. Any claim for credit pursuant to this Section 33H-15(a) shall follow the crediting procedures for issuance of credits provided therein. A credit shall only be considered against the Park Open Space Fee for those properties encompassed by the previous development order. (2)Any feepayer claiming such credit shall file a credit application and present documentation to be considered by the Director in determining the amount of credit to be given toward the local park open space fee. Such determination shall be subject to administrative charges specified below and procedures set forth in the manual. No refunds shall be made under this provision of this section. Any appeal from such a determination by the Director shall be reviewed by the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in the adopted manual. (3)Where a feepayer seeks to apply a credit against payment of the park impact fee, the administrative fee portion of the impact fee shall be the sum of: (a) seven and one-half (7½) percent of the credit or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) whichever is less and (b) seven and one-half (7½) percent of the remaining net park cost not satisfied by the credit. (4)Previously approved park impact fee credits which are: (1) unused and (2) based on a net park cost which has been subsequently adjusted, shall be entitled to an adjustment equal to the percentage increase or decrease of the net park cost in the park impact fee formula. Any such adjustment shall only be utilized to offset park impact fees and shall not be refundable. (b) Credit for Future Local Park Dedications. (1)When the feepayer agrees to dedicate land for a local park in accordance with Sections 4.B and 6, a credit for up to the full amount of the open space fee may be given by the Director on an acre per acre basis. (2)Where a feepayer seeks to apply a contribution in-lieu-of fee credit against payment of the park impact fee, the administrative fee portion of the impact fee shall be the sum of: (a) seven and one-half (7½) percent of the contribution in-lieu-of fee or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) whichever is less and (b) seven and one-half (7½) percent of the remaining net park cost not satisfied by the contribution in-lieu-of-fee. The administrative fee, A&E, design and inspection charges must be paid prior to the time of the building permit issuance. (c) Credit for Local Park Improvements. (1)A credit for past local park improvements may be given. Where park improvements were voluntarily constructed within a local park, a credit may be given for up to one hundred (100) percent of the park improvement fee in accordance with the provisions of this section. (2)A credit for future local park improvements may be given. Where the feepayer agrees to supply, build or install park and recreation improvements within a local park site pursuant to Section 33H-7(c), a credit may be given in the amount of such facilities agreed to be provided, up to one hundred (100) percent of the park improvement fee. Credits for improvements shall be created when the construction of the park improvement are completed and accepted by the Department for maintenance. (3)Credits for the local park improvement fee shall not exceed those improvement costs shown in Table 2 herein.(4)Where a feepayer seeks to apply a fee credit against payment of the park impact fee, the administrative fee portion of the impact fee shall be the sum of: (a) seven and one-half (7½) percent of the credit or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) whichever is less and (b) seven and one-half (7½) percent of the remaining net park cost not satisfied by the contribution. The administrative fee must be paid prior to the time of the building permit issuance. (5)Previously approved credits for local park improvements which are: (1) unused and (2) based on a prior park cost which has been subsequently adjusted, shall be entitled to an adjustment equal to the percentage increase or decrease of the net improvement cost in the park impact fee formula. Any such adjustment shall only be utilized to offset park impact fees and shall not be refundable. (6)Credits shall not be given for the administrative fee portion of the impact fee which remains the responsibility of the feepayer and must be paid prior to the time the building permit is issued. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 92-83, §§ 1, 2, 7-21-92; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94) Sec. 33H-16. Appeals of administrative decisions.(a)Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the decisions of the Parks and Recreation Director or of the Planning and Zoning Director, may be appealed by the feepayer to the County Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council. Appeals of the decisions of the Executive Council shall be to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with procedures specified in Section 33-314, Miami-Dade County Code. (b)If a feepayer wishes to appeal, the feepayer shall first file a notice of administrative appeal on the form specified in Section XVIII of the manual, with the Development Impact Committee Coordinator. All appeals shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the earlier of: (a) issuance of a written decision by the Parks and Recreation Director or by the Planning and Zoning Director; or (b) the Planning and Zoning Director's acceptance of payment of the park impact fee. The feepayer shall, when filing an appeal, submit a letter which provides a full explanation of the request, the reason for the appeal, and all supporting documentation. (c)The Development Impact Committee Coordinator shall schedule the appeal before the Development Impact Committee Executive Council as soon as practically possible. The Development Impact Committee Executive Council shall vote to affirm, reject or revise the decision of the Parks and Recreation Director or of the Planning and Zoning Director. The written decision of the Council shall be mailed certified mail, return receipt requested. Any appeal to the Board of County Commissioners shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the Council's written decision. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90; Ord. No. 94-184, § 1, 9-22-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 28, 9-3-98) Sec. 33H-17. Vested rights. Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior to the effective date of this chapter and on which there has been a good faith reliance and a substantial change of position. (Ord. No. 90-59, § 2, 6-19-90)

,Chapter 33I POLICE SERVICES IMPACT FEE [1]

Sec. 33I-1. Short title and applicability.Sec. 33I-2. Findings, conclusions and purpose.Sec. 33I-3. Rules of construction.Sec. 33I-4. Definitions.Sec. 33I-5. Imposition of police services impact fee.Sec. 33I-6. Police services impact fee computation formula.Sec. 33I-7. Exemptions.Sec. 33I-8. Credits.Sec. 33I-9. Fee computation by independent study.Sec. 33I-10. Benefit zones and trust funds.Sec. 33I-11. Impact fee expenditures.Sec. 33I-12. Refund of impact fees paid.Sec. 33I-13. Appeal of administrative decisions.Sec. 33I-14. Police Services Impact Fee Manual and periodic review.Sec. 33I-15. Vested rights.Sec. 33I-16. Periodic Update of Fee Schedule.Sec. 33I-1. Short title and applicability.(a)This chapter [Ordinance Number 90-31] shall be known and may be cited as the "Police Services Impact Fee Ordinance."(b)This chapter shall be applicable to all land development in unincorporated Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90) Sec. 33I-2. Findings, conclusions and purpose.(a)The provision of adequate police protection is essential for the safety of the public. The existing level of service in Miami-Dade County provides for the prompt dispatch of police assistance of a size and composition appropriate to the request and with an emergency response time of within five (5) minutes for the first arriving unit. (b)Increase in new development in unincorporated Miami-Dade County will directly and adversely impact existing police services. In order to maintain adequate police protection for the existing population and to accommodate projected population due to new development, additional capital resources are required. (c)Current sources of revenue will be inadequate to fund the cost of acquisition of property and capital equipment required to provide police service to new development. Without an impact fee, the adverse impact on existing and future residents of unincorporated Miami-Dade County will result. (d)Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or restrict funding of law enforcement related land, facilities and capital equipment from additional revenue sources to enhance police services. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-3. Rules of construction.(a)The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed so as to effectively carry out its purpose in the interest of public safety. (b)For the purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter, unless otherwise stated in this chapter, the following rules of construction shall apply to the text of this chapter. (1)If there is any conflict between the text of this chapter and any table, summary table or illustration, the text shall control.(2)The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is permissive.(3)Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. (4)The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for," "designed for," "maintained for," or "occupied for."(5)The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or any other similar entity. (6)Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or," or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows: a."And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.b."Or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.c."Either…or" indicates that the connected items, conditional provisions, or events shall apply singly but not in combination.(7)The word "includes" shall not limit a term to the specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like kind or character. (8)The word "he" means "he or she"; "his" means "his or hers." (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90) Sec. 33I-4. Definitions.(a)The definitions contained in Chapters 28 and 33, Code of Miami-Dade County, shall apply to this chapter except as otherwise provided in the following definitions: (1) Applicant means the person who applies for a building permit or submits a plat or waiver of plat. (2) Building means any structure having a roof entirely separated from any other structure by space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors or windows or any similar opening and erected for the purpose of providing support or shelter for persons, animals, things or property of any kind. (3) Building permit means an official document or certificate issued by the Miami-Dade County Building Official, authorizing the construction siting, or change of use of any building. For purposes of this chapter, the term "building permit" shall also include tie-down permits for those structures or buildings, such as mobile homes, that do not require a building permit in order to be occupied. (4) Comprehensive Development Master Plan (CDMP) means the comprehensive plan of Miami-Dade County adopted and amended pursuant to the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act, Section 163.3161 et seq., Florida Statutes (1987). (5) Credit means the present value of past provisions made by new developments for the cost of existing or future capital improvements. (6) Development activity, development or activity means any activity for which a building permit is required pursuant to the South Florida Building Code or any applicable County ordinance. (7) Development of regional impact means any development which because of its character, magnitude or location would have a substantial impact on the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of more than one (1) county. (8) Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department means the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department or his designee. (8.1) Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning means the director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning or his designee. (9) Encumbered means monies committed by contract or purchase order in a manner that obligates Miami-Dade County to expend the funded amount upon delivery of goods, the rendering of services or the conveyance of real property provided by a vendor, supplier, contractor or owner. (10) Existing development means the lawful land use physically existing as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter derives and any development or additional development for which the landowner holds a valid building permit as of the effective date of this chapter. Existing development shall also include that maximum level of development activity for which a previous impact fee was paid under the provisions of this chapter. (11) Feepayer means a person intending to commence a proposed development for which an impact fee computation is required under this chapter, or a person who has paid an impact fee, or provided a letter of credit pursuant to this chapter. (12) Impact means the effect of the new development, including additional residential and nonresidential development, on the police services of Miami-Dade County. (13) Improvement means any physical improvement related to property, construction costs of a police district station or other facility, or acquisition of capital equipment that increases the capacity of public services. (14) Nonresidential development means development not providing for any residential units. (15) Person, for the purpose of this chapter, means individuals, partnerships, trusts, corporations, and all other legal entities authorized by the law of Florida to own and develop real property. (16) Police services impact fee, fee, or impact fee means the proportionate fair share charge required to be paid in accordance with this chapter. (17) Residential development means any building or buildings designed to be used as dwelling units. (18) Unincorporated areas means any land in Miami-Dade County not lying within the boundaries of a municipality. (19) Unit or unit of development means a residential structure which is a quantifiable increment of development activity; e.g., a single-family home, or a residential module; e.g., each condominium or apartment unit within a condominium complex or building. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-5. Imposition of police services impact fee.(a)Any application for building permit for development activity within unincorporated Miami-Dade County shall be subject to the assessment of a police services impact fee in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter. However, any application for a building permit where the required police services impact fee payment is made prior to October 1, 1994 shall not be subject to the provisions of this ordinance amending Chapter 33I of the Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County provided said building permits are issued prior to January 29, 1995. For building permits which expire or are revoked after the effective date of this chapter, the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund of previously paid impact fees in accordance with Section 33I-12, provided that, in the case of reapplication shall be paid. (b)No building permit shall be issued by the County until the applicant has paid the assessed impact fees as calculated pursuant to Sections 33I-6 and 33I-14. Payment of the police services impact fee pursuant to this chapter shall not prohibit a feepayer from initiating an independent fee computation study in accordance with Section 33I-9 (c)Notwithstanding the payment of a police services impact fee, other State or County developmental regulations may limit the issuance of building permits for development activity. (d)Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the County from paying the required impact fee on behalf of any applicant or feepayer. In such an instance, the impact fee payment shall be from allowable fundable sources other than prior impact fee revenues. (e)The police services impact fee manual (the manual) shall be used for the administration of this chapter. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 94-167, § 1, 9-13-94) Sec. 33I-6. Police services impact fee computation formula.(a)The feepayer shall pay a police services impact fee amount based on the formula set forth below. Such fee will be based on the capital costs required to serve the increased demand for police services resulting from proposed new development activities, together with impact fee administrative costs. The formula to be used to calculate the police services impact fee shall be established as follows for each property type: THE VALUE OF MIAMI-DADE POLICE DEPARTMENT'SCAPITAL ASSETS1 ×THE PERCENTAGE USE OF POLICE SERVICES BY RESIDENTIAL ORNONRESIDENTIAL USERS IN UNINCORPORATED MIAMI-DADE COUNTY2 °THE NUMBER OF TOTAL UNITS FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY ORTHE TOTAL SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY INUNINCORPORATED MIAMI-DADE COUNTY3 -CREDIT FOR INTEREST PAYMENTS FOR OUTSTANDING DEBT FROM GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS ISSUED TO FINANCE CAPITAL PROJECTS FOR POLICE PURPOSES AS PROVIDED IN SEC. 33I-16 =POLICE SERVICES IMPACT FEE+5% ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE=POLICE SERVICES IMPACT FEE AND ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE ;i1=1.8p;1 Estimated value of capital assets ($181,566,435) derived from information provided by the Miami-Dade Police Department Budget, Planning and Resource Management Bureau for the year 2004, the Miami-Dade County Office of Capital Improvements and Development, and the Department of Planning and Zoning. ;i1=1.8p;2 Statistical information from August 1, 1988 through July 31, 1989, compiled by the Miami-Dade Police Department and updated in October 2004. ;i1=1.8p;3 Number of total units and square footage provided by the Miami-Dade County Property Appraisal Department on April 15, 2005. The Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department shall employ the following schedule to compute the amount of fee to be paid. 6 The cost per unit for residential land use/occupancy types and cost per square foot for nonresidential land use/occupancy types shall be adjusted annually based on Consumer Price Index and periodically adjusted based on bond indebtedness as outlined in Section 33I-16. (b)The fee per residential unit or fee per nonresidential square foot shall be multiplied by the feepayer's total number of units for residential property or total number of square feet for nonresidential property. The total will then be multiplied by 1.05 to accommodate the general administrative charge of five (5) percent. The resulting total is the police services impact fee and administrative charge which shall be paid by the feepayer. (c)In the case of development activity involving a change of use or magnitude of use in which a building permit is required, the proposed development shall be required to pay an impact fee only for the increase in the development activity. The impact fee shall be the difference between the computed impact fee for the proposed development activity and the computed impact fee for the existing development activity as defined in Section 33I-4. Any building permit which expires or is revoked after the effective date of this chapter and for which a fee has not previously been paid under this chapter shall be required to comply with the provisions herein. No refunds will be given for proposed development activity resulting in a negative fee calculation. (d)No impact fee payment shall be required for any development activity when the calculated fee is less than fifty dollars ($50.00).(e)If the type of activity within a proposed or current development is not specified, the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department shall use the activity most nearly comparable in computing the fee. (f)In determining existing development activity, as defined in Section 33I-4, and the units or number of square feet for the proposed or existing development, the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department shall use the building permit and certificate of use information contained in the building or zoning records of Miami-Dade County or other governmental agencies. (g)All building permits subject to Police Services Impact Fee issued within one year after the effective date of this ordinance shall be obligated to pay sixty percent (60%) of the computed fee as determined herein. All building permits subject to the Police Services Impact Fee and issued more than one year after but less than two years after the effective date of this Ordinance shall be obligated to pay eighty percent (80%) of the computed fee as determined herein. Beginning the third year after the effective date of this ordinance, all building permits subject to the Police Services Impact Fee shall be obligated to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the computed fee as determined herein. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 94-167, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-7. Exemptions.(a)Alteration, expansion or replacement of an existing building or unit where the use is not changed and the number of units or square footage is not increased shall not be subject to the impact fee. The burden of demonstrating the previous existence of a use or structure or previous payment of impact fees shall be upon the feepayer. In cases where there is an existing use, any additional fees shall be based upon the alteration to the existing use or structure. (b)Governmental or public facilities are exempt from the impact fee, including those parcels, grounds, buildings, or structures owned by federal, State, County, or municipal governments, the Miami-Dade County School Board, or the South Florida Water Management District, and related to the operation of those entities and used for governmental purposes including, but not limited to, governmental offices, police and fire stations, airports, seaports, parking facilities, equipment yards, sanitation facilities, water control structures, schools, parks, and similar facilities in or through which general government operations are conducted. It is provided, however, the following shall not be considered governmental or public facilities and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter: (1) privately owned properties or facilities leased for governmental operations or activities; and (2) public properties or facilities used for private residential, commercial, or industrial activities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the application of the police services impact fee to facilities at a county owned airport used for private commercial or industrial activities shall be limited to the extent permitted by federal law or existing contractual commitments with the Federal Aviation Administration. (c)The construction of accessory buildings or structures where the use is not changed, such that an additional impact does not result and the number of units or square footage is not materially increased, is exempt. (d)A building replacement meeting the requirements of Section 104.3(D), South Florida Building Code (replacement necessitated by partial destruction) is exempt. (e)All development activity which is subject to an existing development of regional impact development order (D.O.) adopted pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes, approved prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall be exempt in its entirety from this chapter with regard to development approved by such development order, unless otherwise provided for in the current development order. This exemption provision does not apply to those development orders which have been revoked or determined to be null and void or to any development not authorized in such development order by Miami-Dade County. This exemption shall not apply to any additional development regardless of whether such additional development constitutes a substantial deviation under Chapter 380, Florida Statutes. (f)The issuance of a tie-down permit on a mobile home on which the impact fee has been paid is exempt.(g)Parking garages are exempt from impact fees when the structure is accessory to a primary use structure.(h)The following development shall be exempt from the requirement that impact fees be paid, subject to an application by the feepayer to the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning and a determination by the Director of the Planning and Zoning Department that the proposed development activity is consistent with the CDMP and fits within one (1) or more of the following categories: (1)Any residential development activity, or portion thereof, which provides affordable housing as defined in the "Florida Affordable Housing Act of 1986," Section 420.602(3)(a) or (b), Florida Statutes (1987) and amendments thereto. (2)Any commercial or industrial development activity located within an existing designated enterprise zone as defined in Section 290.004(1)(a), Florida Statutes (1987), and amendments thereto, provided that: (a) the proposed development activity has been granted a property tax exemption under Sections 29-81 through 29-89 of the Code of Miami-Dade County; (b) if such development activity is located within a municipality, the municipality has also granted property tax exemption under the aforesaid sections 29-81 through 29-89; and (c) the fee payer has furnished all the documentation required by the County Planning and Zoning Director, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. (3)Any commercial or industrial development activity located within an area which has been approved for tax increment financing in accordance with the Code, where specific expenditures from tax increment dollars have been allocated for police services capital acquisition, expansion and improvements as identified in Section 33I-11(a). The total amount of exemption shall not exceed the total expenditure from tax increment dollars for police services capital acquisition, expansion, and improvements. (i)An exemption must be claimed by the feepayer prior to paying the impact fee. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed to have been waived by feepayer. If an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33I-7(g)(1), (2), or (3) impact fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. However, the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund pursuant to this chapter upon submitting a formal application for a refund to and receiving approval from the Director of the Planning and Zoning Department, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. Application for a refund under this section shall be made within one (1) year of the later of: (1) the effective date of this ordinance or (2) the issuance of a certificate of completion or a certificate of use for the building. Failure to apply for a refund by the feepayer, within the above referred one-year period shall invalidate the right for a refund under this section. Notwithstanding the aforesaid, if an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33I-7(g)(1), community development corporations (CDC) as defined in Section 290.033(2), Florida Statutes and community-based organizations (CBO) as defined in Section 420.602(5), Florida Statutes (1991) that have received assistance from Miami-Dade County or the State of Florida in funding predevelopment costs to provide affordable housing to low and very low income families shall have the option of executing a covenant running with the land, in a form approved by the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning, in lieu of payment of impact fees prior to the issuance of the building permit, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. Joint ventures of either a CDC or a CBO with a for-profit developer, whose proposed affordable housing development has been approved by the Miami-Dade County Office of Community Development, shall also have the right to execute the aforesaid covenant. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 92-153, § 3, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 94-167, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-8. Credits.(a)Credit for up to the full amount of the impact feet shall be given by the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department for monetary contributions toward capital equipment and facilities that were voluntarily proffered or required under County development order issued for a development of regional impact or development of County impact or under other final legislative or administrative action approved prior to the effective date of this chapter. Credit shall be limited to the extent of monies paid. No refunds shall be made under this section. (b)Any claim for credit pursuant to this section must be filed with the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department within one (1) year from the effective date of this chapter and shall be in accord with the standards and procedures for issuance of credits provided in the Police Services Impact Fee Manual. A credit shall be considered only for those properties encompassed by the previous development order or action. Any feepayer claiming such credit shall present documentation and any other evidence of a monetary contribution for capital equipment or facilities. Any appeal from the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department's determination of the amount of credit shall be to the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter and in the police services impact fee manual. (c)The feepayer shall, at the time the application for credit is submitted to the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department, pay the charge for applications for credit set forth in the Police Services Impact Fee Manual. That administrative charge shall be used by the County solely for the processing and review of the application for credit. The amount of the administrative charge shall not be credited against the impact fee. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-9. Fee computation by independent study.(a)The feepayer may elect, prior to or within thirty (30) days after paying the schedule impact fee calculated pursuant to Section 33I-6, to utilize an independent fee computation study. Such study shall calculate the fee pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 33I-6. The feepayer shall provide the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department notice of intent to utilize an independent fee computation study prior to or within thirty (30) days of the issuance of any building permit on the property for which a police services impact fee is due. Independent fee computation studies initiated after the notice of intent is filed shall be completed and submitted to the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department within three (3) months after the notice is filed. Nothing in this section shall allow a building permit for development activity to be issued without the payment of the police services impact fee. (b)If the feepayer elects to utilize an independent fee computation study, the feepayer shall, at his own expense, prepare and present to the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department a study that documents the basis upon which the value of each of the components of the fee formula set forth in Section 33I-6 were determined. The burden shall be upon the feepayer to provide the data, analysis, and reports necessary for the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department to make a determination. The analysis and report must be based on the formula set forth in this chapter. (c)The feepayer shall, at the time the independent fee computation study is submitted to the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department, pay a nonrefundable independent study administrative charge in the amount set forth in the police services impact fee manual. That administrative charge shall be used by the County solely for the processing and review of the independent fee calculation study. The amount of the administrative charge shall not be credited against the impact fee. (d)The Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department shall determine whether the independent fee computation study accomplishes the following: (1)Adheres to the impact fee formula set forth in Section 33I-6 (2)Provides complete, thorough, and accurate information; and(3)Is prepared by a qualified person as defined in the Police Services Impact Fee Manual.(e)Upon approval of the independent fee calculation study by the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department, based on his determination that the conditions described in Section 33I-9(d) are fully met, the feepayer shall pay the amount of the fee so computed and be entitled to a refund of any amount previously paid in excess thereof. (f)Should the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department determine that the conditions described in Section 33I-9(d) are not fully met by the independent fee study, he shall issue a letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the feepayer stating the deficiencies and his intent to reject the independent fee calculation study, in whole or in part, unless the deficiencies are corrected. If the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department determines that the deficiencies in the independent fee study have not been corrected within sixty (60) days from the date his letter of intent is mailed, he shall issue a letter rejecting the independent fee study. (g)Any appeal from a decision of the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department to reject an independent fee study shall be filed in accordance with Section 33I-13 (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-10. Benefit zones and trust funds.(a)There are hereby created and established three (3) police services impact fee benefit zones. The geographic locations of these benefit zones are reflected on Attachment "1," which exhibit is incorporated into and made a part of this ordinance by reference. Subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance, new trust fund accounts shall be established for each of the three police services impact fee benefit zones created hereby. Existing police services impact fee benefit zones trust fund accounts shall then be prorated and transferred into these new trust fund accounts in accordance with the table identified as Attachment "2", which exhibit is incorporated into and made a part of this ordinance by reference. (b)A separate interest bearing trust account shall be established for each benefit zone. All impact fees collected shall be promptly deposited into the trust account designated for the benefit zone where the feepaying development is located, except for general administrative costs paid pursuant to Section 33I-6(b), which shall be deposited into the operating account of the Department of Planning and Zoning. Impact fee funds from each trust account shall be spent in accordance with Sections 33I-10 and 33I-11 within the benefit zone designated for that trust account. (c)Expenditures from each fund shall be limited to the acquisition, expansion or improvement of real property, capital facilities or equipment made necessary by the new development from which the fees were collected or for principal and interest payments (including sinking fund payments) on bonds or other borrowed revenues used to acquire, expand or improve such facilities or equipment necessitated to mitigate the impact of and provide benefit to new development. As provided in Section 33I-11(e), funds can be expended on acquisition, expansion or improvement of capital facilities and equipment for central response and support services made necessary by new development in proportion to the impact on central response and support services made by the new development. (d)A financial report outlining expenditures and unexpended funds within impact fee benefit zones shall be prepared annually by the Miami-Dade Police Department and submitted to the County Manager within one hundred twenty (120) days following the end of the County's fiscal year. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 94-167, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-11. Impact fee expenditures.(a)Expenditures from the impact fee shall include but not be limited to:(1)Planning, design, and construction plan preparation;(2)Permitting and fees;(3)Land and materials acquisition, including any costs of acquisition or condemnation;(4)Relocation of utilities required by the construction of improvements and additions to police facilities;(5)Design and construction of new drainage facilities required by the construction of improvements and additions to police facilities;(6)Landscaping and site preparation, including demucking, filling to flood criteria and compaction;(7)Construction management and inspection;(8)Surveying, soils and materials testing and removal of hazardous and solid waste materials;(9)Acquisition of capital equipment for police services including the acquisition of systems, tools and machines that allow police service tasks to be performed in a more efficient manner; (10)Repayment of any monies transferred or borrowed from any budgetary fund of the County subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, which were used to fund any of the growth-necessitated improvements as herein provided. Any funds that are borrowed shall be spent only to mitigate the impact of new development; (11)Compliance with the provision of "Art in Public Places" if such compliance is necessitated by facility development;(12)Purchase of land for additional police stations and support facilities needed to accommodate new growth;(13)Design and construction of additional police stations and other facilities or design and improvement of existing police stations and other facilities needed to accommodate new growth; (14)Purchase of other capital equipment for stations affected by new growth.(b)The five (5) percent general administrative cost portion of the impact fee shall be deposited into a separate operating account of the Department of Planning and Zoning and shall be used solely to pay the costs of administering the impact fee. (c)Trust account funds shall be deemed expended in the order in which they are collected. Procedures to be used in scheduling the expenditure of impact fee trust funds shall be set forth in the police services impact fee manual. (d)Monies, including any accrued interest, not encumbered in any fiscal period shall be retained in the trust funds until the next fiscal period except as provided by the refund provisions of this chapter. (e)To the extent that new development impacts central response and support services and receives benefit from growth-necessitated acquisition, expansion or improvement of capital facilities and equipment, funds can be expended from each benefit zone to mitigate the impact of new development on central response and support services in proportion to the impact made and funds collected. (f)If a refund is required under this chapter, it shall be paid out of revenues collected hereunder. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-12. Refund of impact fees paid.(a)If a building permit encompassing feepaying development expires or is revoked, or if the feepayer has paid impact fees in excess of the amount determined by an approved independent fee computation study completed in accordance with conditions set forth in Section 33I-9, then the feepayer may request from the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning a refund of the impact fee paid or the appropriate portion thereof. However, the County shall retain the general administrative cost portion of the fee to cover the cost of the administration of the impact fee calculation, collection and refund. The feepayer must submit an application for such refund to the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning within thirty (30) days of notification of any of the enumerated circumstances. No refund shall be provided for impact fees deemed expended pursuant to Section 33I-11(c) if no timely claim was made. Funds shall be deemed expended for the purposes of this chapter when a contract or agreement encumbering all or a portion of the payment of said funds shall be approved by final County action. No refunds of police services impact fees shall be given for proposed development activity which results in a negative impact fee computation. (b)Any impact fee trust funds not expended by the end of the fiscal quarter immediately following six (6) years from the date that the fee was paid shall be returned to the feepayer by the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning with accrued interest; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to developments of regional impact with phased or long term buildout. (c)If no claim is made within the time period prescribed by this chapter for the money eligible for refund, then said money shall be returned to the appropriate trust fund described in Section 33I-10 and shall be utilized for the purposes described in Section 33I-11. For the purpose of refunds under this section, monies collected shall be deemed to be spent or encumbered for expenditure on the assumption that the first money placed in the appropriate trust fund shall be the first money taken out of the fund when withdrawals are made. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98) Sec. 33I-13. Appeal of administrative decisions.(a)Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, decisions of the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department or of the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning under this chapter may be appealed by the feepayer to the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council. Appeals of the decisions of the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council shall be to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with procedures specified in Section 33-314. The written decision of the Council shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested. Any appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the Council's written decision. (b)If the feepayer wishes to appeal an administrative decision of the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department or of the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning, the feepayer shall first file a notice of administrative appeal on a form specified in the police services impact fee manual with the Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator. All appeals shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the issuance of a written decision of the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department or of the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning and shall be accompanied by a letter which provides a full explanation of the request, the reason for the appeal, and any supporting documentation. The Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator shall schedule the appeal before the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council as soon as practically possible. The Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council shall vote to affirm, reject or revise the decision of the Director of the Miami-Dade Police Department or of the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-14. Police Services Impact Fee Manual and periodic review.(a)The police services impact fee manual shall be used for the administration of this chapter. The manual shall contain the following:(1)The methodology for independent fee calculation provided for by Section 33I-9 (2)The independent study administrative fee provided for in Section 33I-9(c). (3)The standards and procedures for issuance of credits as set forth in Section 33I-8 (4)The standards, procedures and other matters required to administer Sections 33I-4 through 33I-15 (b)The County Manager shall periodically review this chapter and the police services impact fee manual and, if appropriate, make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners for revisions to the chapter and the police services impact fee manual. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the benefits to a feepaying development are equitable in that the fee charged to the paying development shall not exceed a proportionate fair share of the costs of mitigating police service impacts of new developments, and that the procedures for administering the impact fee remain efficient. Additionally, within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the end of the fiscal year, the Office of Capital Improvements shall submit to the County Manager a financial and management report on the impact fee trust funds. No later than thirty (30) days after submission of the report, the County Manager shall conduct a public meeting, for the purpose of presenting the report and receiving public comment on the report as well as the impact fee program. This meeting shall be advertised at least seven (7) days in advance in a newspaper of general circulation. No later than thirty (30) days after the public meeting, the County Manager shall schedule the report, which shall serve as the County's Annual Impact Fee Report, for the Board of County Commissioners' consideration. The County Manager shall provide a companion report to the Board advising of any County Manager recommended impact fee program changes and detailing comments received from the annual impact fee public meeting. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-15. Vested rights. Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior to the effective date of this chapter and on which there has been a good faith reliance and a substantial change of position. The Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning, upon application by the feepayer, shall determine the extent of the applicability of vested rights. Appeal of the Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning's determination shall be to the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council in accordance with Section 33I-13 and Section 2-114.1, Code of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 90-31, § 2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 29, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06) Sec. 33I-16. Periodic Update of Fee Schedule.(1)The County Manager shall annually adjust the police impact fee schedule provided in Sec. 33I-6 above by indexing the schedule to inflation as defined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) - All Urban Consumers for the United States, published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. The first indexing calculation adjustment shall occur during the 2006-2007 County budget year using the difference in Consumer Price Index figures for calendar years 2005 and 2006. The adjusted Impact Fee Schedule shall be on file with the Department of Planning and Zoning, Impact Fee Administration Office. (2)Unless otherwise directed by the County Commission, any adjustments to the police impact fee, made pursuant to this section, shall be effective the first of October each calendar year. (3)If the index is changed by the United States Department of Labor so that the base year is different, the index shall be converted in accordance with the conversion factor published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. (4)If the index is discontinued or revised, such other government index or computation with which it is replaced shall be used in order to obtain substantially the same result as would be obtained if the index had not been discontinued or revised. (5)The County Manager shall periodically adjust the police impact fee schedule provided in Sec. 33I-6 above by providing credit in the police impact fee formula for any outstanding debt from General Obligation Bonds issued to finance capital projects for police purposes which meet needs generated by population growth and development. (Ord. No. 06-14, § 1, 1-24-06)

,Chapter 33J FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES IMPACT FEE [1]

Sec. 33J-1. Short title and applicability.Sec. 33J-2. Findings, conclusions and purpose.Sec. 33J-3. Rules of construction.Sec. 33J-4. Definitions.Sec. 33J-5. Imposition of fire and emergency medical services impact fee.Sec. 33J-6. Fee computation formula.Sec. 33J-7. Fire service impact contributions in-lieu-of fee.Sec. 33J-8. Exemptions.Sec. 33J-9. Credits.Sec. 33J-10. Fee computation by independent study.Sec. 33J-11. Benefits, zones and trust funds.Sec. 33J-12. Impact fee expenditures.Sec. 33J-13. Refund of impact fees paid.Sec. 33J-14. Appeal of administrative decisions.Sec. 33J-15. Fire impact fee and periodic review.Sec. 33J-16. Vested rights.Sec. 33J-17. Periodic Update of Fee Schedule.Sec. 33J-1. Short title and applicability.(a)This chapter [Ordinance Number 90-26] shall be known and may be cited as the "Miami-Dade County Fire and Emergency Medical Services Impact Fee Ordinance." (b)This chapter shall be applicable to land development throughout the district including unincorporated Miami-Dade County and all municipalities served by the district. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90) Sec. 33J-2. Findings, conclusions and purpose.(a)The provision of adequate fire and emergency medical service facilities is essential for the health, safety, and welfare of the public. The existing level of service (LOS) in Miami-Dade County provides for the prompt dispatch of fire and rescue task force of a size and composition appropriate to the land use occupancy type requiring the service, resulting in an approximate average response time within the district of six (6) minutes for the first arriving unit. (b)Planning and census projections indicate that the population of the district will substantially increase during the next fifteen (15) years, resulting from new development. (c)The increase in new development will directly and adversely impact the existing fire and emergency medical service network located within the district. (d)In order to maintain adequate fire and rescue protection for the existing population and to accommodate the impact of the projected increase in population due to new development, the fire service network will have to be expanded. (e)The sources of revenue presently available to Miami-Dade County will be inadequate to fund the entire cost of acquisition of additional fire rescue service property, the construction of fire rescue stations and the acquisition of capital equipment required to accommodate the impact of the new development. (f)An adverse impact on the existing and future residents of Miami-Dade County would result without an impact fee to ensure adequate fire rescue service facilities to service the needs of new development. Therefore an impact fee sufficient to mitigate impacts of new development is necessary. (g)All new development shall bear its proportionate share of the capital costs of new fire and emergency medical service facilities necessary for the protection of the public. The expenditure of funds generated by the fee paid by new development shall provide a benefit to the development generating the impact and paying the fees. (h)For purposes of assuring that fees collected are used to mitigate impacts of new development, it is appropriate to divide the district into four (4) benefit zones. Funds collected from development occurring in one zone shall be expended to mitigate the impacts and to benefit the development occurring in that zone. Additionally, to the extent that new development in one zone impacts and receives benefit from any capital expansions and acquisitions in an adjacent zone due to alarm responses and dispatches in accordance with Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department policy, funds from that zone may be expended up to six (6) miles in the adjacent zone. Further, funds shall be expended from each zone for growth-necessitated capital acquisitions and expansions to central response and support services to the extent that increased development within that zone produces impacts on and receives benefits from central response and support services. (i)Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict funding of fire and rescue facilities from additional revenue sources to enhance fire and emergency medical services. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-3. Rules of construction.(a)The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed so as to effectively carry out its purpose in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare. (b)For the purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter, unless otherwise stated in this chapter, the following rules of construction shall apply to the text of this chapter: (1)If there is any conflict between the text of this chapter and any table, summary table or illustration, the text shall control.(2)The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is permissive.(3)Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. (4)The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for," "designed for," "maintained for," or "occupied for."(5)The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or any other similar entity. (6)Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or," or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows: a."And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.b."Or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.c."Either…or" indicates that the connected items, conditional provisions, or events shall apply singly but not in combination.(7)The word "includes" shall not limit a term to the specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like kind or character. (8)The word "he" means "he or she" "his" means "his" or "her." (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90) Sec. 33J-4. Definitions. The definitions contained in Chapters 28 and 33, Code of Miami-Dade County, shall apply to this chapter except as otherwise provided in the following definitions: (a) Applicant means the person who applies for a building permit or submits a plat or waiver of plat. (b) Arterial roadway means a roadway intended to serve moderate to large traffic volumes traveling relatively long distances. These facilities are characterized by long trip lengths and high speeds and volumes. (c) Board means the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (d) Building means any structure having a roof entirely separated from any other structure by space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors or windows or any similar opening and erected for the purpose of providing support or shelter for persons, animals, things or property of any kind. (e) Building permit means an official document or certificate issued by the Miami-Dade County Building Official or issued by a municipality within the district, authorizing the construction siting, or change of use of any building. For purposes of this ordinance, the term "building permit" shall also include tie-down permits for those structures or buildings, such as mobile homes, that do not require a building permit in order to be occupied. (f) City manager means the chief administrative officer of a Miami-Dade County municipality. (g) Collector roadway means a roadway which is intended to serve as the connecting link for local streets and to provide intra-neighborhood transportation. These facilities are characterized by relatively short trip lengths and moderate speeds and volumes. (h) Comprehensive Development Master Plan (CDMP) means the comprehensive plan of Miami-Dade County adopted and amended pursuant to the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act, Section 163.3161 et seq., Florida Statutes (1987). (i) Contribution in-lieu-of fee includes, but is not limited to, a conveyance, dedication, construction, placement, delivery, or remittance, as the case may be, of land, buildings, improvements, fixtures, or personal property to Miami-Dade County in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. (j) Credit means the value of past provisions as of the date they were made by new developments for the cost of existing or future capital improvements or dedications other than by payment of the impact fee required under this chapter. (k) Development activity, development or activity means any activity for which a building permit is required pursuant to the Florida Building Code or any applicable Miami-Dade County or municipal ordinance. (l) Development of regional impact means any development which because of its character, magnitude or location would have a substantial impact on the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of more than one (1) county. (m) Dwelling unit means a building or portion of a building designed for or whose primary purpose is for residential occupancy, and which consists of one (1) or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one (1) or more persons. Dwelling unit also includes mobile homes, motels, hotels, rooming houses or any such units converted to condominiums, servants' quarters or congregate living facilities as that term is defined by Section 400.402, Florida Statutes. (n) Encumbered means monies committed by contract or purchase order in a manner that obligates Miami-Dade County to expend the funded amount upon delivery of goods, the rendering of services or the conveyance of real property provided by a vendor, supplier, contractor or owner. (o) Existing development means the lawful land use physically existing as of the effective date of this chapter and any development or additional development for which the landowner holds a valid building permit as of the effective date of this chapter. Existing development shall also include that maximum level of development activity for which a previous impact fee was paid under the provisions of this chapter. (p) Fair market value means the most probable price in cash, terms equivalent to cash, or in other precisely revealed terms, for which the appraised property will sell in a competitive market under all conditions requisite to fair sale, with the buyer and seller each acting prudently, knowledgeably, and for self-interest, and assuming that neither is under undue duress. The appraised property shall show the fair market value of the site being dedicated at the time the dedication is proposed to be made. (q) Feepayer means a person intending to commence a proposed development for which an impact fee computation is required under this chapter, or a person who has paid an impact fee, provided a letter of credit, or made a contribution in-lieu-of fee pursuant to this chapter. (r) Fire Director means the Director of the Miami-Dade County Fire Rescue Department or his designee. (r-1) Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning means the director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning or his designee. (s) Fire impact fee, fee, or impact fee means the proportionate fair share charge required to be paid in accordance with this chapter. (t) Fire impact fee schedule or impact fee schedule means the table of impact fee per unit and or square foot of development used by the fire director in computing the fire impact fee pursuant to Section 33J-6 (u) Frontage means distance of property measured along a road right-of-way. (v) Impact means the effect of the new development including additional residential and nonresidential units on the fire and rescue emergency services in a given area. (w) Impact determination means the cost related to the impact of the development of additional residential and nonresidential units as calculated pursuant to the formula contained herein. (x) Improvement means any physical improvement related to property, construction costs of a fire rescue station or other facility, or acquisition of capital equipment that increases the capacity of fire rescue services. (y) Land valuation assumptions means the fundamental assumptions and conditions to be used for an appraisal to determine fair market value of land. (z) Miami-Dade fire and emergency medical services impact fee manual or impact fee manual means the document prepared by the County Manager and adopted by the Board of County Commissioners which contains information, sets forth procedures and implements policies essential to the administration of the impact fee procedure, all pursuant to the standards set forth in this chapter. (aa) Miami-Dade Fire and Rescue Service District or District means the Miami-Dade Fire and Rescue Service District established by Section 18-24, Code of Miami-Dade County, and serving the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County and those municipalities participating in the District. (bb) Mixed use means a group of different uses of land within a building or buildings for which a building permit or permits is/are sought. (cc) Nonresidential development means any development not providing for residential dwelling units. (dd) Owner means the person holding legal title to the real property. (ee) Performance security means sufficient funds irrevocably committed by a legally acknowledged written instrument to secure complete performance of a contract or condition of a development order, developer's agreement or covenant, in a form acceptable to the Department of Planning and Zoning Director and approved by the County Attorney, including: (1)Letter of credit;(2)Surety bond; or(3)Any other form of security comparable to (1) or (2) and acceptable to the Department of Planning and Zoning Director and approved by the County Attorney. (ff) Person, for the purpose of this chapter, means individuals, partnerships, trusts, corporations, and all other legal entities authorized by the law of Florida to own and develop real property. (gg) Residential development means any building or buildings designed to be used as dwelling units. Dwelling unit may be one (1) single-family dwelling unit or two (2) or more dwelling units in planned project or subdivision. (hh) Site means a legally described parcel of property capable of development pursuant to applicable County or city ordinances and regulations. (ii) Unit(s) of development means a quantifiable increment of development activity dimensioned in terms of dwelling units or other appropriate measurements contained in the impact fee schedule. (jj) Unincorporated areas means any land in Miami-Dade County not lying within the boundaries of a municipality. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-5. Imposition of fire and emergency medical services impact fee.(a)All development is deemed to create an impact and therefore create a demand for increase fire and rescue service capacity. As such, the cost of new facilities should be borne by new users to the extent new uses require new facilities. Therefore, building permits subject to Fire Rescue Impact Fee issued within one year after the effective date of this ordinance shall be obligated to pay seventy-six (76) percent for residential, ninety (90) percent for retail, ninety-four (94) percent for office, fifty-eight (58) percent for industrial, and fifty (50) percent for hospital of the computed fee as determined herein. All building permits subject to the Fire Rescue Impact Fee and issued more than one year after the effective date of this Ordinance shall be obligated to pay one hundred (100) percent of the computed fee as determined herein. For building permits which expire or are revoked after the effective date of this chapter the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund of previously paid impact fees (see Section 33J-13) provided that in the case of reapplication for permit, the impact fee in effect at the time of reapplication shall be paid. No such building permit shall be issued by the County or any Miami-Dade County municipality within the District unless and until the feepayer has paid such impact fee, or presented adequate security for such impact fee, in a form permitted by this chapter and acceptable to the Department of Planning and Zoning Director, for a contribution in-lieu-of fee as provided in Section 33J-7. Payment of the fire impact fee or provision therefor pursuant to this chapter shall not prohibit a feepayer from initiating an independent fee computation study as provided for in Section 33J-10 herein. (b)Notwithstanding the payment of a fire impact fee or provision of a contribution in-lieu-of fee in conjunction with land development activity, other State, Miami-Dade County and municipal development regulations may limit the issuance of building permits for development activity. (c)Nothing herein shall prohibit any municipality or Miami-Dade County from paying the required impact fee on behalf of any applicant or feepayer. In such an instance, said impact fee payment shall be from allowable funding sources other than prior impact fee revenues. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 94-168, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-6. Fee computation formula.(a)The feepayer shall pay a fire impact fee amount based on the formula set forth below. Such fee will be based on the capital costs of fire and rescue improvements required to serve the increased demand for fire and emergency medical service resulting from proposed new development activities, together with impact fee administrative costs. The formula to be used to calculate the fire impact fee shall be established as follows for each land use/occupancy type: (1)NET CAPITAL COSTS (Total Capital Inventory of All Assets1, including land, less Outstanding Debt) ° NUMBER OF FIRE AND RESCUE DISPATCHES PER YEAR2 = NET FIRE AND RESCUE CAPITAL COST PER DISPATCH (2)FIRE RESCUE DISPATCHES BY LAND USE TYPE PER YEAR3 ° TOTAL UNITS OF LAND USE BY TYPE OF USE3 = FIRE/RESCUE DISPATCH PER YEAR BY LAND USE TYPE (3)FIRE/RESCUE DISPATCH PER YEAR BY LAND USE TYPE × NET FIRE AND RESCUE CAPITAL COST PER DISPATCH = NET FIRE/RESCUE CAPITAL COST PER UNIT OF LAND USE BY TYPE OF LAND USE + 4% GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE = FIRE AND RESCUE IMPACT FEE The Fire Director shall employ the following schedule to compute the amount of the fee to be paid. The four (4) percent general administrative charge portion of the fee is nonrefundable. 1 Total Capital Asset Inventory, 2004, Miami-Dade County Fire Rescue Department. 2 Fire and Rescue Dispatches 2004, Miami-Dade County Fire Rescue Department 3 "Fire and Rescue Alarms by Property Class 2004," Miami-Dade County Fire Rescue Department. "Building Size by Property Class and Fire District, 2004," Miami-Dade County Property Appraiser. Statistical information supporting the calculation for the Fire and Rescue Impact Fee is contained in the Technical Memorandum on the Methods of Calculating an Updated Fire and Impact Fee prepared for Miami-Dade County by James C. Nicholas, P.H.D. dated August 13, 2005 which memorandum shall be on file with the Impact Fee Section of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning. 4 The cost per unit for residential land use/occupancy types and the cost per square foot for nonresidential land use/occupancy types shall be adjusted annually based on the Consumer Price Index and periodically adjusted based on bond indebtedness as outlined in Section 33J-17 (b)The cost per unit or per square foot shall be multiplied by 1.04 to accommodate the general administrative charge of four (4) percent. (c)In the case of development activity involving a change of use or magnitude of use in which a building permit is required, the proposed development shall be required to pay an impact fee only for any increase in the development activity. The impact fee shall be the difference between the computed impact fee for the proposed development activity and the computed impact fee for the existing development activity as defined in Section 33J-4. Any building permit which expires or is revoked after the effective date of this chapter and for which a fee has not previously been paid under this chapter shall be required to comply with the provisions herein. No refunds will be given for proposed development activity resulting in a negative fee calculation. (d)No impact fee payment shall be required for any development activity when the calculated fee is less than fifty dollars ($50.00).(e)If the type of activity within a proposed or current development is not specified in the above impact fee schedule, the Fire Director shall use the activity most nearly comparable in computing the fee. (f)In determining existing development activity, as defined in Section 33J-4, and the units or square feet of proposed or existing development, the Fire Director shall use the building permit and certificate of use information contained in the building or zoning records of Miami-Dade County or of district municipalities or other governmental agencies. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 94-168, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-7. Fire service impact contributions in-lieu-of fee.(a)The feepayer shall have the option, as a full or partial alternative to paying the capital equipment portion of the impact fee as required herein, to dedicate an amount of fire rescue property, fire rescue station construction, fire rescue apparatus or other capital equipment in those instances where the Fire Director determines after a review of applicable siting, facilities and capital equipment criteria and requirements that such alternatives are appropriate. All such contributions shall be deemed contributions in-lieu-of fee. All contributions in-lieu-of fee shall be in accordance with the current Six (6) Year Capital Fire Rescue Improvement Program as adopted annually by the Board of County Commissioners. Such contributions in-lieu-of fee shall be credited against the capital equipment portion of the impact fee in the amount determined by the Fire Director. The Fire Director's review of applications for contributions in-lieu-of fee shall be based on factors including, but not limited to, the need for real property, fire rescue stations or equipment to meet new growth, and timing of development. (b)The Fire Director shall review all offers of dedication of real property to determine whether the property is of suitable size, dimension, topography and general characteristics to serve as a fire rescue station site or other fire rescue facility. In determining whether to accept the dedication, the Director shall consider the following factors: (1)The size and condition of land:a. Site requirements: Each proposed fire rescue station site should be a minimum of one and one-half (1½) acres in size. Each site should accommodate a minimum of a two-bay fire rescue station consisting of approximately two hundred fifty (250) feet of frontage and two hundred fifty (250) feet of depth. The site should be located within a quarter mile of the intersection of two (2) arterial streets or an arterial and a major collector or two (2) major collectors. It should have frontage on an arterial or major collector street. The site to be dedicated should form a single parcel of land except when the Fire Director's review determines that two (2) or more parcels would be in the best public interest. It should be in a configuration permitting large fire rescue service vehicles a sufficient turning radius and located in an area suitable for development as determined by the Fire Director. No part of the site should be located within a designated conservation or preservation area as designated in the CDMP. A site proffered for district needs other than a fire rescue station may be considered on a case-by-case basis. b. Suitability for building: Soil and subsoil test boring results and certifications should be furnished at the feepayer's cost. Soil and fill should be suitable with minimal site preparation for construction of fire rescue station and driveways for large fire rescue vehicles. Certification of hazardous materials tests as required by the Fire Director shall be furnished at feepayer's costs. c. Utilities and required improvements: Electrical, water and wastewater services should be available or provided to the County and should meet all applicable State and local regulations. Feepayer should provide commitments by all providers of utility services before acceptance of the property by the County or issuance of any building permit for the development for which the contribution in-lieu-of fee is being made. All utilities should be in place or adequate security provided therefor. Utilities must be at the perimeter of the site and should include roads, walks, curbs, water lines, sewer lines, electric service lines, and telephone service lines. All utilities should be of sufficient quality and quantity to adequately service the site. (2)If, after the application of the above stated review criteria, the Fire Director determines that it is appropriate to accept the offer of dedication of fire rescue service property, then the feepayer shall dedicate the property either within ninety (90) days of the date of approval, or as otherwise specified in a recordable agreement or covenant running with the land. Any such agreement or covenant shall be recorded prior to the issuance of the first building permit on the development for which the contribution is being made. All such agreements and covenants shall identify the land, facilities and timing of the dedication. The Fire Director shall determine the timing of dedication based on the County's present needs and availability of service. (3)Land dedications shall be made by plat and deed.(4)Contributions of land shall be valued as of that time that marketable title in fee simple absolute is conveyed to the County, free of encumbrances, with such documentation and requirements as may be set by the Board of County Commissioners and the Fire Director for the acceptance of real property. (5)All improvements provided by the feepayer in lieu of an impact fee or any portion thereof shall become the sole property of Miami-Dade County upon completion and acceptance by the County. (c)A contribution in-lieu-of fee may also be accomplished by constructing a fire rescue station or other fire rescue facility either on property dedicated by the feepayer or on County-owned property within the Fire Rescue Service Benefit Zone serving the development for which the impact fee is being paid. The fire rescue station must be constructed in accordance with the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department service standards and specifications. The Fire Director shall review and approve the construction plan and shall establish the construction time frame. An offer by a feepayer to construct fire rescue improvement contributions in-lieu-of fee must be accompanied by plans in sufficient detail to permit the Fire Director to determine that Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department design standards will be satisfied and to determine the cost of such improvements. (d)A contribution in-lieu-of fee may also be accomplished by the donation of fire rescue apparatus or other capital equipment for an existing or proposed fire rescue station or other fire rescue facility of type and quality in accordance with the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department standards and specifications for planning, siting, construction, apparatus and capital equipment, as well as those standards established by this chapter. If this alternative is selected and approved by the Fire Director, the feepayer shall, in conjunction with the Fire Director, develop an acquisition plan. The acquisition plan shall detail the items to be purchased and establish purchase specifications in accordance with Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department service standards and specifications. The acquisition plan shall also establish a time frame for purchase and delivery. Contributions of personal property shall be valued as of the time of delivery to the County of title or bill of sale absolute. (e)When proposed contributions in-lieu-of fee are not consistent with standards set forth by the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department, the Fire Director shall reject the offer of contributions in-lieu-of fee. If a proposed contribution in-lieu-of fee is rejected, the Department of Planning and Zoning Director shall state in writing the reasons for the rejection. Any appeal from such a decision of the Fire Director shall be reviewed by the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 33J-14 and in the impact fee manual. (f)With the approval of the Fire Director, the feepayer may post with the County a surety bond, letter of credit, or other security acceptable to the Fire Director and approved by the County Attorney for purposes of guaranteeing the completion of required construction or contribution within the required time frames. (g)If the Fire Director does not accept the offer of dedication of property, construction of a fire rescue station or donation of capital equipment, then the feepayer shall be required to pay a specific impact fee amount in accordance with Section 33J-6 (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 94-168, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-8. Exemptions.(a)Governmental or public facilities are exempt from the requirement that impact fees be paid. Such facilities are those parcels, grounds, buildings or structures owned by municipal, County, State and federal governments, the Miami-Dade County School Board and the South Florida Water Management District and related to the operation of those entities and used for governmental purposes including, but not limited to, governmental offices, police and fire rescue stations, airports, seaports, parking facilities, equipment yards, sanitation facilities, water control structures, schools, parks and similar facilities in or through which general government operations are conducted. It is provided, however, the following shall not be considered governmental or public facilities and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter: (1) privately owned properties or facilities leased for governmental operations or activities; and (2) public properties or facilities used for private residential, commercial or industrial activities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the application of the fire and emergency medical services impact fee to facilities at a County owned airport used for private commercial or industrial activities shall be limited to the extent permitted by federal law or existing contractual commitments with the Federal Aviation Administration. (b)All development activity which is subject to an existing development of regional impact development order (D.O.) adopted pursuant to Chapter 380, Florida Statutes, approved prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall be exempt in its entirety from this chapter, with regard to development approved by such development order, unless otherwise provided for in the current development order. This exemption provision does not apply to those development orders which have been revoked or determined to be null and void or to any development not authorized in such development order by Miami-Dade County or another unit of local government in Miami-Dade County issuing such development order. This exemption shall not apply to any additional development regardless of whether such additional development constitutes a substantial deviation under Chapter 380, Florida Statutes. (c)Alteration, expansion or replacement of an existing building or unit where the use is not changed and the number of units or square footage is not increased shall not be subject to the impact fee. The burden of demonstrating the previous existence of a use or structure or previous payment of impact fees shall be upon the feepayer. In cases where there is an existing use, any additional fees shall be based upon the alteration to the existing use or structure. (d)The construction of accessory buildings or structures where the use is not changed, such that an additional impact does not result and the number of units or square footage is not materially increased, is exempt. (e)A building replacement meeting the requirements of Section 104.3(D), South Florida Building Code (replacement necessitated by partial destruction) is exempt. (f)The issuance of a tie-down permit on a mobile home on which the impact fee has been paid is exempt.(g)Parking garages are exempt from the impact fees when the structure is accessory to a primary use structure.(h)The following development shall be exempt from the requirement that impact fees be paid, subject to an application by the feepayer to the Department of Planning and Zoning Director and a determination by the Department of Planning and Zoning Director that the proposed development activity is consistent with the CDMP and fits within one (1) or more of the following categories: (1)Any residential development activity, or portion thereof, which provides affordable housing as defined in the "Florida Affordable Housing Act of 1986," Section 420.602(3)(a) or (b), Florida Statutes, (1987) and amendments thereto. (2)Any commercial or industrial development activity located within an existing designated enterprise zone as defined in Section 290.004(1)(a), Florida Statutes (1987), and amendments thereto, provided that: (a) the proposed development activity has been granted a property tax exemption under Sections 29-81 through 29-89 of the Code of Miami-Dade County; (b) when such development activity is located within a municipality, the municipality has also granted a property tax exemption under the aforesaid Sections 29-81 through 29-89; and (c) the feepayer has furnished all the documentation required by the County Department of Planning and Zoning Director, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. Development activity meeting these criteria shall receive, upon application for and confirmation of tax exemption, an impact fee refund. (3)Any commercial or industrial development activity located within an area which has been approved for tax increment financing in accordance with the Code, where specific expenditures from tax increment dollars have been allocated for fire and emergency medical services capital acquisition, expansion and improvements as identified in Section 33J-12(a). The total amount of exemption shall not exceed the total expenditure from tax increment dollars for fire and emergency medical services capital acquisition, expansion and improvements. (i)An exemption must be claimed by the feepayer prior to paying the impact fee. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed to have been waived the feepayer. If an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33J-8(g)(1), (2), or (3) impact fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. However, the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund pursuant to this chapter upon submitting a formal application for a refund to and receiving approval from the Department of Planning and Zoning Director, in accordance with the provisions of the manual. Application for a refund under this section shall be made within one (1) year of the later of: (1) the effective date of this ordinance or (2) the issuance of a certificate of completion or a certificate of use for the building. Failure to apply for a refund by the feepayer, within the above referred one-year period shall invalidate the right for a refund under this section. Notwithstanding the aforesaid, if an exemption is sought pursuant to Section 33J-8(g)(1), community development corporations (CDC) as defined in Section 290.033(2) [Florida Statutes] and community-based organizations (CBO) as defined in Section 420.602(5), Florida Statutes (1991) that have received assistance from Miami-Dade County or the State of Florida in funding predevelopment costs to provide affordable housing to low and very low income families shall have the option of executing a covenant running with the land, in a form approved by the Department of Planning and Zoning Director, in lieu of payment of impact fees prior to the issuance of the building permit. Joint ventures of either a CDC or CBO with a for-profit developer, whose proposed affordable housing development has been approved by the Miami-Dade County Office of Community Development, shall also have the right to execute the aforesaid covenant. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 92-153, § 2, 12-15-92; Ord. No. 94-168, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-9. Credits.(a)Credits for up to the full amount of the impact fee less the administrative portion of the fee shall be given by the Fire Director for contributions or payments toward fire and emergency medical services capital and facilities that were voluntarily proffered or required under a County or municipal development order issued for a development of regional impact or development of County impact or under other final legislative or administrative action approved prior to the effective date of this chapter. Credit shall be limited to the extent of monies paid or the fair market value of contributions in kind as of the time of the contribution. Any claim for credit pursuant to this section must be filed with the Fire Director and shall be in accord with the standards and procedures for issuance of credits provided in the impact fee manual. A credit shall be considered only for those properties encompassed by the previous development order or action. Any feepayer claiming such credit shall present documentation and any other evidence of the value of the land or the other contribution as of the time of the contribution. Such documentation and evidence shall be considered by the Fire Director in determining the amount of credit to be given toward the impact fee. The Fire Director shall be guided by the criteria set forth in the impact fee manual. No refunds shall be made under this section. Any appeal from the Fire Director's determination of the amount of credit shall be to the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter and in the impact fee manual. (b)The feepayer shall, at the time the application for credit is submitted to the Fire Director, pay to the Planning and Zoning Department the charge for applications for credit set forth in the impact fee manual. That administrative charge shall be used by the County solely for the processing and review of the application for credit. The amount of the administrative charge shall not be credited against the impact fee. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 92-123, § 1, 10-13-92; Ord. No. 94-168, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-10. Fee computation by independent study.(a)The feepayer may elect, prior to or within thirty (30) days after paying the schedule impact fee calculated pursuant to Section 33J-6, to utilize an independent fee computation study. Such study shall calculate the fee pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 33J-6. The feepayer shall provide the Fire Director notice of intent to utilize an independent fee computation study prior to or within thirty (30) days of the issuance of any building permit on the property for which a fire impact fee is due. Independent fee computation studies initiated after the notice of intent is filed shall be completed and submitted to the Fire Director within three (3) months after the notice is filed. Nothing in this section shall allow a building permit for development activity to be issued without the payment of the fire impact fee. (b)If the feepayer elects to utilize an independent fee computation study, the feepayer shall, at his own expense, prepare and present to the Fire Director a study that documents the basis upon which the value of each of the components of the fee formula set forth in Section 33J-6 were determined. The burden shall be upon the feepayer to provide the data, analysis, and reports necessary for the Fire Director to make a determination. The analysis and report must be based on the formula set forth in this chapter. (c)The feepayer shall, at the time the independent fee computation study is submitted to the Fire Director, pay to the Department of Planning and Zoning Director a nonrefundable independent study administrative charge in the amount set forth in the impact fee manual. That administrative charge shall be used by the County solely for the processing and review of the independent fee calculation study. The amount of the administrative charge shall not be credited against the impact fee. (d)The Fire Director shall determine whether the independent fee computation study accomplishes the following:(1)Adheres to the impact fee formula set forth in Section 33J-6 (2)Provides complete, thorough, and accurate information; and(3)Is prepared by a qualified person as defined in the impact fee manual.(e)Upon approval of the independent fee calculation study by the Fire Director, based on his determination that the conditions described in Section 33J-10(d) are fully met, the feepayer shall pay the amount of the fee so computed and be entitled to a refund of any amount previously paid in excess thereof. (f)Should the Fire Director determine that the conditions described in Section 33J-10(d) are not fully met by the independent fee study, he shall issue a letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the feepayer stating the deficiencies and his intent to reject to independent fee calculation study in whole or in part unless the deficiencies are corrected. If the Fire Director determines that the deficiencies in the independent fee study have not been corrected within sixty (60) days from the date his letter of intent is mailed, he shall issue a letter rejecting the independent fee study. (g)Any appeal from a decision of the Fire Director to reject and independent fee study shall be filed in accordance with Section 33J-14 (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98) Sec. 33J-11. Benefits, zones and trust funds.(a)There are hereby created and established four (4) fire rescue service impact zones. The geographic location of these zones is reflected on Attachments "A" and "B," which exhibits are incorporated into and made a part of this chapter by reference. If in conflict, the boundary descriptions in Attachment "B" shall take precedence. (b)A separate interest-bearing trust account shall be established for each benefit zone. All impact fees collected shall be promptly deposited into the proper trust account, except for general administrative costs paid pursuant to Section 33J-6(b), which shall be deposited into a separate Department of Planning and Zoning operating account for the sole purpose of administering the impact fee. Impact fees collected by municipalities pursuant to this chapter shall be transmitted to the County at the end of each fiscal quarter except for the portion of the general administrative cost designated for retention by the municipality. (c)Expenditures from each fund shall be limited to the acquisition, expansion or improvement of real property, capital facilities or equipment made necessary by the new development from which the fees were collected or for principal and interest payments (including sinking fund payments) on bonds or other borrowed revenues used to acquire, expand or improve such facilities or equipment necessitated to mitigate the impact of and provide benefit to new development. As provided in Section 33J-12(f), funds collected in one (1) benefit zone may be expended in an adjacent benefit zone up to a distance of six (6) miles, based on fire/rescue alarms and dispatches made pursuant to Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department policy and mutual response patterns between zones. As provided in Section 33J-12(e), funds can be expended on acquisition, expansion or improvement of capital facilities and equipment for central response and support services made necessary by new development in proportion to the impact on central response and support services made by new development. (d)A financial and management report on the impact fee trust funds shall be provided annually by the Fire Director to the County Manager within one hundred twenty (120) days of the end of the fiscal year. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 94-168, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-12. Impact fee expenditures.(a)Expenditures from the impact fee shall include but not be limited to:(1)Planning, design and construction plan preparation;(2)Permitting and fees;(3)Land and materials acquisition, including any costs of acquisition or condemnation;(4)Relocation of utilities required by the construction of improvements and additions to fire rescue facilities;(5)Design and construction of new drainage facilities required by the construction of improvements and additions to fire rescue facilities; (6)Landscaping and site preparation, including demucking, filling to flood criteria and compaction;(7)Construction management and inspection;(8)Surveying, soils and materials testing and removal of hazardous and solid waste materials;(9)Acquisition of capital equipment for fire rescue services including the acquisition of systems, tools and machines related to new development that allow fire rescue service tasks to be performed in a more efficient manner. (10)Repayment of any monies transferred or borrowed from any budgetary fund of the County subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, which were used to fund any of the growth-necessitated improvements as herein provided. Any funds that are borrowed shall be spent only to mitigate the impact of new development; (11)Compliance with the provision of "Art in Public Places" if such compliance is necessitated by facility development;(12)Purchase of land for additional fire rescue stations and support facilities needed to accommodate new growth;(13)Design and construction of additional fire rescue stations and other facilities or design and improvement of existing fire rescue stations and other facilities needed to accommodate new growth; (14)Purchase of fire rescue apparatus and other capital equipment for stations affected by new growth.(b)The four (4) percent general administrative cost portion of the impact fee shall be deposited into the operating account of the Department of Planning and Zoning and shall be used solely to pay the costs of administering the impact fee. (c)A collecting municipal governmental unit shall be entitled to thirty (30) percent of the four (4) percent general administrative cost portion of the impact fee collected within the municipality to compensate it for the administrative expense of collecting and administering its responsibilities under this ordinance and under agreements with the County detailing such responsibilities. The remainder of the four (4) percent general administrative cost portion of the impact fee shall be used by the Department of Planning and Zoning for the further administration of this chapter. (d)Trust account funds shall be deemed expended in the order in which they are collected. Procedures to be used in scheduling the expenditure of impact fee trust funds shall be set forth in the impact fee manual. (e)Monies, including any accrued interest, not encumbered in any fiscal period shall be retained in the trust funds until the next fiscal period except as provided by the refund provisions of this chapter. (f)To the extent that new development impacts adjacent zones due to fire and rescue alarms and dispatches made pursuant to Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department policy and mutual response patterns, and receives benefit from growth-necessitated capital acquisitions, expansions or improvements occurring in adjacent zones, funds collected in one (1) benefit zone can be expended on growth-necessitated capital expansion in adjacent zones up to a distance of six (6) miles to mitigate new development impact between zones. (g)To the extent that new development impacts central response and support services and receives benefit from growth-necessitated acquisition, expansion or improvement of capital facilities and equipment, funds can be expended from each benefit zone to mitigate the impact of new development on central response and support services in proportion to the impact made and funds collected. (h)If a refund is required under this chapter, it shall be paid out of revenues collected hereunder. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 94-168, § 1, 9-13-94; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-13. Refund of impact fees paid.(a)If a building permit encompassing feepaying development expires or is revoked, the feepayer may request from the Planning and Zoning Director a refund of the impact fee paid. However, the County and any designated collecting city shall retain the general administrative cost portion of the fee to cover the cost of the administration of the impact fee calculation, collection and refund. No refund shall be provided for impact fees deemed expended pursuant to Section 33J-12(d), for the cost of completed improvements contributed in-lieu-of fee or if no timely claim is made. Funds shall be deemed expended for purposes of this chapter when a contract or agreement encumbering all or a portion of the payment of said funds shall be approved by final County action. (b)Any impact fee trust funds not expended by the end of the fiscal quarter immediately following six (6) years from the date of the fee was paid shall be returned to the feepayer by the Planning and Zoning Director with accrued interest; provided however, that this subsection shall not apply to developments of regional impact with phased or long term build-out. (c)If no claim is made within the time period prescribed by this chapter for the money eligible for refund, then said money shall be returned to the appropriate trust fund described in Section 33J-11 and shall be utilized for the purposes described in Section 33J-12. For the purpose of refunds under this section, monies collected shall be deemed to be spent or encumbered for expenditure on the assumption that the first money placed in the appropriate trust fund shall be the first money taken out of the fund when withdrawals are made. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98) Sec. 33J-14. Appeal of administrative decisions.(a)Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, decisions of the Fire Director or of the Planning and Zoning Director under this chapter may be appealed by the feepayer to the developmental impact committee executive council. Appeals of the decisions of the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council shall be to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with procedures specified in Section 33-314. The written decision of the Council shall be mailed certified mail, return receipt requested. Any appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the Council's written decision. (b)If a feepayer wishes to appeal an administrative decision of the Fire Director or of the Planning and Zoning Director, the feepayer shall first file a notice of administrative appeal on a form specified in the impact fee manual with the Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator. All appeals shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the issuance of a written decision of the Fire Director or of the Planning and Zoning Director and shall be accompanied by a letter which provides a full explanation of the request, the reason for the appeal, and any supporting documentation. The Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator shall schedule the appeal before the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council as soon as practically possible. The Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council shall vote to affirm, reject or revise the decision of the Fire Director or of the Planning and Zoning Director. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98) Sec. 33J-15. Fire impact fee and periodic review.(a)The impact fee manual shall be used for the administration of this chapter. The impact fee manual shall contain the following:(1)The procedure for the designation by the County of municipal staff to administer any part of the impact fee process or procedure pertaining to municipalities participating in the District. Such designation procedure shall be implemented through memoranda of agreement between the County and these municipalities. The impact fee manual shall further detail the specific procedure for entering into such memoranda of agreement. (2)The methodology for independent fee calculation provided by Section 33J-10 (3)The independent study administrative fee provided for in Section 33J-10(c). (4)The standards and procedures for issuance of credits as set forth in Section 33J-9 (5)The standards, procedures and other matters required to administer Sections 33J-4 through 33J-16 (b)The County Manager shall review the contents of this chapter and impact fee manual annually and, if appropriate, make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners for revisions to the chapter and impact fee manual. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the benefits to a fee-paying development are equitable in that the fee charged to the paying development shall not exceed a proportionate fair share of the costs of mitigating fire and emergency medical service impacts of new developments, and that the procedures for administering the impact fee remain efficient. Additionally, within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the end of the fiscal year, the Office of Capital Improvements shall submit to the County Manager a financial and management report on the impact fee trust funds. No later than thirty (30) days after submission of the report, the County Manager shall conduct a public meeting, for the purpose of presenting the report and receiving public comment on the report as well as the impact fee program. This meeting shall be advertised at least seven (7) days in advance in a newspaper of general circulation. No later than thirty (30) days after the public meeting, the County Manager shall schedule the report, which shall serve as the County's Annual Impact Fee Report, for the Board of County Commissioner's consideration. The County Manager shall provide a companion report to the Board advising of any County Manager recommended impact fee program changes and detailing comments received from the annual impact fee public meeting. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-16. Vested rights. Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior to the effective date of this chapter and on which there has been a good faith reliance and a substantial change of position. The Planning and Zoning Director, upon application by the feepayer, shall determine the extent of the applicability of vested rights. Appeal of the Planning and Zoning Director's determination shall be to the Development Impact Committee Executive Council in accordance with Section 33J-14 and Section 2-114.1, Code of Miami-Dade County. (Ord. No. 90-26, § 2, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 30, 9-3-98; Ord. No. 07-58, § 1, 4-24-07) Sec. 33J-17. Periodic Update of Fee Schedule.(1)The County Manager shall annually adjust the fire impact fee schedule provided in Sec. 33J-6 above by indexing the schedule to inflation as defined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) - All Urban Consumers for the United States, published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. The first indexing calculation adjustment shall occur during the 2006-2007 County budget year using the difference in Consumer Price Index figures for calendar years 2005 and 2006. The adjusted Impact Fee Schedule shall be on file with the Department of Planning and Zoning, Impact Fee Administration Office. (2)Unless otherwise directed by the County Commission, any adjustments to the fire impact fee, made pursuant to this section, shall be effective the first of October each calendar year. (3)If the index is changed by the United States Department of Labor so that the base year is different, the index shall be converted in accordance with the conversion factor published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. (4)If the index is discontinued or revised, such other government index or computation with which it is replaced shall be used in order to obtain substantially the same result as would be obtained if the index had not been discontinued or revised. (5)The County Manager shall periodically adjust the fire rescue impact fee schedule provided in Sec. 33J-6 above by providing credit in the fire impact fee formula for any outstanding debt from General Obligation Bonds issued to finance capital projects for fire rescue purposes which meet needs generated by population growth and development. (Ord. No. 07-58, § 2, 4-24-07)

,Chapter 33K EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES IMPACT FEE [1]

Sec. 33K-1. Short title and applicability.Sec. 33K-2. Findings; conclusions and purpose.Sec. 33K-3. Rules of construction.Sec. 33K-4. Definitions.Sec. 33K-5. Imposition of educational facilities impact fee.Sec. 33K-6. Computation of the amount of educational facilities impact.Sec. 33K-7. Assessment and payment of fee.Sec. 33K-8. Exemptions.Sec. 33K-9. Credits.Sec. 33K-10. Benefit districts and trust funds.Sec. 33K-11. Use of funds.Sec. 33K-12. Impact fee expenditures.Sec. 33K-13. Refund of impact fees paid.Sec. 33K-14. Appeal of administrative decisions.Sec. 33K-15. Educational facilities impact fee manual and periodic review.Sec. 33K-16. Vested rights.Sec. 33K-1. Short title and applicability.(a)This chapter [Ordinance No. 95-79] shall be known and may be cited as the "Educational Facilities Impact Fee Ordinance."(b)The Board of County Commissioners of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County have the authority to adopt this Ordinance pursuant to Article VIII, Section 6 of the Florida Constitution (1968), Section 1.01, Miami-Dade County Charter, Chapter 163, Part II, Florida Statutes, and Sections 235.19 and 235.193, Florida Statutes. (c)This chapter shall be applicable to all land development within the entire area of Miami-Dade County.(d)This chapter is intended to implement and be consistent with the CDMP. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(1), 5-2-95) Sec. 33K-2. Findings; conclusions and purpose.(a)Section 235.19, Florida Statutes, requires the School Board of Miami-Dade County, Florida, and the Board of County Commissioners of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County to coordinate school site planning and the Comprehensive Development Master Plan (CDMP) for Miami-Dade County. (b)Section 235.193(1), Florida Statutes, requires the coordination of planning between school boards and local governing bodies to ensure that plans for the construction and opening of public educational facilities are coordinated in time and place with plans for residential development and other necessary services. (c)The CDMP for Miami-Dade County, adopted by Ordinance Numbers 88-110 and 88-119, established the goal to provide the best possible distribution of land use, by type and density, to meet the physical, social, cultural and economic needs of the present and future resident and tourist population in a manner that will maintain or improve the quality of the natural and manmade environment and amenities, and ensure the timely and efficient provision of services (CDMP, Land Use Element, Goal). (d)The CDMP Capital Improvements Element includes a goal specifying that Miami-Dade County shall plan for and manage in a fiscally prudent manner, its facilities and infrastructure in order to adequately serve current and new residents while efficiently using and maintaining existing public investments, and making timely provision of required new capital investment (CDMP Capital Improvements Element Goal); and sets forth policies that service and facility impacts of new development must be identified and quantified so that sufficient public facilities will be planned and programmed to be available when needed (CDMP, Capital Improvements Element, Policy 3B); and Appropriate funding mechanisms will be adopted and applied by Miami-Dade County in order to assure the fiscal resources to maintain acceptable levels of service. Such funding mechanisms include ..... impact fees, ..... among others (CDMP, Capital Improvements Element, Policy 4B). (e)It has been determined that there will be a significant amount of new residential development in Miami-Dade County over the next twenty (20) years. (f)It has been determined that after the construction of new residential development, it is reasonably expected that this new residential development will be occupied by school age children that will need to be accommodated by the Miami-Dade County public school system and provided the opportunity of a free public school education. (g)It has also been determined that traditional revenue resulting from new residential development will not be adequate to support the capital educational facilities necessary to accommodate the school age children generated from the new residential development. (h)In order to make up for this shortfall and ensure that the School Board can continue to provide adequate capital educational facilities to accommodate new school age children, the School Board of Miami-Dade County, Florida has requested the Board of County Commissioners of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County to adopt an educational facilities impact fee to be paid by new residential development and to be earmarked for the construction of new capital educational facilities to accommodate the school age children generated as a result of new residential development. (i)The Florida legislature through the enactment of Section 163.3202(3), Florida Statutes has sought to encourage local governments to adopt impact fees. (j)The Miami-Dade County Home Rule Amendment to the Florida Constitution, Article VIII, Section 6, of the Florida Constitution (1968); Section 1.01, Miami-Dade County Charter; and Chapter 163, Part II, Florida Statutes (F.S.), authorize the regulation of land development, which includes the imposition of developmental impact fees. (k)Each of the types of new residential development described in this chapter will place additional students in the public schools of Miami-Dade County, necessitating the development of additional capital educational facilities including the acquisition of school sites, the construction of new public schools, and the expansion of existing educational facilities. (l)The educational facilities impact fees are derived from, are based upon, and do not exceed the costs of providing these new capital educational facilities necessitated by this new residential development (m)The Board of County Commissioners of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County have reviewed, accepted, and incorporated as Attachment "A" into this chapter by reference Educational Facilities Impact Fee Methodology and Technical Report, prepared by James Duncan and Associates and Dr. James C. Nicholas, dated April 7, 1995, which establishes the need for the educational facilities impact fee and sets forth a reasonable methodology and analysis for the determination of the impact fee. (n)The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use and development of land so as to assure that new residential development bears a proportionate share of the cost of capital expenditures necessary to provide educational facilities as contemplated by the CDMP. (o)This chapter is intended to implement the policies established in Section 235.193, Florida Statues. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(2), 5-2-95) Sec. 33K-3. Rules of construction.(a)The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed so as to effectively carry out its purpose in the interest of furthering public education in Miami-Dade County. (b)For the purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter, unless otherwise stated in this chapter, the following rules of construction shall apply to the text of this chapter: (1)If there is any conflict between the text of this chapter and any table, summary table or illustration, the text shall control.(2)The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is permissive.(3)Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. (4)The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for," "designed for," "maintained for," or "occupied for."(5)The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or any other similar entity. (6)Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or," or "either...or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows: a."And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.b."Or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.c."Either . . . or" indicates that the connected items, conditional provisions, or events shall apply singly but not in combination.(7)The word "includes" shall not limit a term to the specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like kind or character. (8)"Day" means calendar day. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(3), 5-2-95) Sec. 33K-4. Definitions. The definitions contained in Chapters 28 and 33, Code of Metropolitan Miami-Dade County, shall apply to this chapter except as otherwise provided in the following definitions: (1) Board means the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (2) Building permit means an official document or certificate issued by the Miami-Dade County Building Official, or any municipal building or zoning department in Miami-Dade County authorizing the construction, siting, or change of use of any building. For purposes of this chapter, the term "building permit" shall also include tie-down permits for those structures or buildings, such as mobile home dwelling units, that do not require a building permit in order to be occupied. (3) Capital educational facilities include but shall not be limited to land for public school sites, site preparation and infrastructure costs for school sites, public school buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment (FF & E) for public school buildings, school buses, portable facilities used at public schools, and Miami-Dade County School Board buildings used to house transportation facilities and maintenance facilities. (4) Comprehensive Development Master Plan (CDMP) means the Comprehensive Plan of Miami-Dade County adopted and amended pursuant to the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act, Sections 163.3161 et seq., Florida Statutes, as may be amended from time to time. (5) Development of regional impact means any development which because of its character, magnitude or location would have a substantial impact on the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of more than one county, and which has received a development order pursuant to Section 380.06, Florida Statutes. (6) Educational facilities impact fee, fee, or impact fee means the proportionate fair share charge required to be paid in accordance with this chapter. (7) Encumbered means monies committed by contract or purchase order in a manner that obligates Miami-Dade County or the Miami-Dade County School Board to expend the funded amount upon delivery of goods, the rendering of services or the conveyance of real property provided by a vendor, supplier, contractor or owner. (8) Existing residential development means the lawful residential land development existing as of the effective date of this chapter, and any residential land development for which the landowner holds a valid building permit or valid mobile home dwelling unit tie-down permit as of the effective date of this chapter. Existing residential land development shall also include that maximum level of development activity for which a previous impact fee was paid under the provisions of this chapter. Residential land development shall include but not be limited to single family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, and mobile home dwelling units. (9) Feepayer means a person intending to commence new residential land development during the life of the development by applying for the issuance of a building permit or mobile home tie-down permit to construct new residential development, expand residential development, or change the use of a non-residential development to a new residential development for which an impact fee is required to be paid pursuant to the terms of this chapter. Feepayer also includes a person who has paid an impact fee, or provided a letter of credit pursuant to this chapter. (10) Mobile home dwelling unit means a manufactured structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on an integral chassis and is designed to be used as a single-family dwelling unit, with or without a foundation, when connected to the required utilities. (11) New residential development means the construction of new residential units, the creation of additional residential units from existing residential units, any expansion of residential units that increase unit size, or a change in use from non-residential development to residential units. Residential units shall include but not be limited to single family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, and mobile home dwelling units. New residential land development shall not include transitory development (such as hotels or motels and time-shares) where units or bedrooms are leased for less than thirty (30) days. (12) Person means individuals, partnerships, trusts, corporations, and all other legal entities authorized by the law of Florida to own and develop real property. (13) Public educational facilities acquisition agreements means an agreement, either short or long term, entered into by the Miami-Dade County School Board providing for the acquisition or use of public educational facilities. (14) School board means the School Board of Miami-Dade County, Florida. (15) Unit size means the unadjusted square footage of a new or existing residential development contained under roof (including garage and roofed patio areas). (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(4), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95) Sec. 33K-5. Imposition of educational facilities impact fee.(a)Any application for a building permit for new residential development within Miami-Dade County shall be subject to the imposition of an educational impact fee in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter. All building permits issued after the effective date of this chapter shall be subject to the imposition of the computed impact fee as determined herein. (b)No such building permit shall be issued by the County or any Miami-Dade County municipality unless and until the applicant has paid such impact fee, or presented a letter of credit for such impact fee in a form acceptable to the Miami-Dade County Planning and Zoning Director. (c)Notwithstanding the payment of an educational facilities impact fee, other state, County, or municipal developmental regulations may limit the issuance of building permits for development activity. (d)Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any municipality, School Board, or Miami-Dade County from paying the required impact fee on behalf of any applicant or feepayer. In such an instance, the impact fee payment shall be from allowable fundable sources other than prior impact fee revenues. (e)The educational facilities impact fee manual (the manual) shall be used for the administration of this chapter. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(5), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-6. Computation of the amount of educational facilities impact.(a)The feepayer shall pay an educational facilities impact fee amount based on the formula set forth below. Such fee is based on the capital cost required to serve the increased demand for capital educational facilities resulting from proposed new residential development, together with impact fee administration charges. The formula to be used to calculate the educational facilities impact fee shall be established as follows for all new residential development, except as applied to the expansion of existing residential units which is addressed below in Section 33K-5(e). The Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning shall employ the following formula to compute the amount of the fee to be paid: New Residential Unit Size* (square feet) × Square Footage Fee** ($0.90) + Base Fee ($600.00) + 2% Administrative Fee = Educational Facilities Impact Fee *Provided by the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning or municipality at the time of building permit application or change of use, whichever is applicable. **Statistical information supporting this calculation of the square footage fee and the base fee is contained in the Educational Facility Impact Fee Methodology and Technical Report prepared for the School Board of Miami-Dade County, Florida by James Duncan and Associates, Craig Richardson, and James C. Nicholas, and dated April 7, 1995. (b)A fee schedule showing the calculated fee amount for any new residential development up to three thousand eight hundred (3,800) square feet in size is included in the Metro-Miami-Dade Educational Facilities Impact Fee Manual. It is presumed that a new residential development greater than three thousand eight hundred (3,800) square feet in size will not create additional impacts on capital educational facilities. (c)In the case of new residential development involving a change of use from non-residential development to residential units, a fee shall be determined for each new individual residential unit created based on the unit size of that new individual residential unit, pursuant to the formula in Section 33K-6(a). (d)In the case of the creation of additional residential units from existing residential units, a fee shall be determined for each new additional residential unit created based on the unit size of the new residential unit, pursuant to Section 33K-6(a). (e)In the case of the expansion of any existing residential unit, a fee shall be determined only for the increase in unit size. The impact fee shall be determined by the following formula: Increase In Unit Size (square feet) × Square Footage Fee ($0.90) + 2% Administrative Fee = Educational Facilities Impact Fee (f)Any building permit which expires or is revoked after the effective date of this chapter and for which a fee has not previously been paid under this chapter shall be required to comply with the provisions herein. (g)In determining the unit size for new residential development, the County Planning and Zoning Director shall use the building permit and certificate of use information contained in the building or zoning records of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning, municipal building code and zoning regulations, or other governmental agencies, whichever is relevant. (h)No impact fee payment shall be required for any development activity when the calculated fee is less than fifty dollars (50.00).(i)The County Planning and Zoning Director, in consultation with the School Board, shall annually review the contents of the Educational Facilities Impact Fee chapter, its formula, and the Educational Facilities Impact Fee Methodology and Technical Report, and if appropriate, make recommendations for revisions to the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners shall consider the County Planning and Zoning Director's and School Board's recommendations within three (3) months of their receipt. The County Department of Planning and Zoning and School Board's recommendation and the Commission's action shall ensure that the benefits to a feepaying development are equitable in that the fee charged to the paying development shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of mitigating capital educational facilities impacts, and the procedures for administering the impact fee process remain efficient. (j)The Board of County Commissioners shall adopt, prior to the effective date of this chapter, a Metro-Miami-Dade Educational Facilities Impact Fee Manual which shall be used for the administration of this chapter. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(6), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-7. Assessment and payment of fee.(a)The person applying for the issuance of a building permit for new residential development not exempted pursuant to Section 33K-8 shall pay the educational facilities impact fee pursuant to Section 33K-6, less any applicable credits as provided for in Section 33K-9, to the County Planning and Zoning Director prior to the issuance of the building permit. No such permits shall be requested, issued, or approved until the applicable impact fee is paid. (b)All funds collected shall be properly identified and promptly transferred for deposit in the Educational Facilities Impact Fee Trust Fund and shall be held in a separate account as determined in Section 33K-10 of this chapter and shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this chapter. (c)No building permit shall be requested, issued or approved by Miami-Dade County or any municipality until such applicable impact fee has been paid. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(7), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-8. Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from the terms of this chapter. An exemption must be claimed by the feepayer at the time of application for a building permit or mobile home tie-down permit Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed to have been waived by the feepayer. (a)Any land development activity that is not capable of creating capital educational facilities demand during its useful lifetime as a matter of law and fact. (b)Multi-family units contained in one (1) or more buildings with a minimum of six (6) units per building and which units do not contain kitchen facilities for the exclusive use of one (1) family. (c)The construction of accessory buildings or structures on residentially zoned properties which are detached from the primary use and which will not result in the occupancy of additional school age children. (d)The replacement of any residential structures which physically and lawfully existed at any time subsequent to January 1, 1992 for which the landowner held a valid building permit. (e)The issuance of a tie-down permit for a mobile home on which an impact fee has been paid. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(8), 5-2-95) Sec. 33K-9. Credits.(a)Credit for up to the full amount of the educational facilities impact fee shall be given by the County Planning and Zoning Director after review and recommendation of the School Board for monetary contributions or land dedication made toward capital educational facilities that were voluntarily proffered or required under a County or municipal development order issued for a development of regional impact or development of County impact or under other final legislative or administrative action approved prior to the effective date of this chapter. (1)Credit shall be limited to the extent of monies paid or land dedicated.(2)A credit shall be considered only for those properties encompassed by the development order or action.(3)Any feepayer claiming such credit shall present documentation and any other evidence of a monetary contribution or land dedication for capital educational facilities. (4)Any appeal from determination of the amount of credit pursuant to this subsection shall be to the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 33K-14 of this chapter. (b)Credit shall also be provided to any feepayer by the County Planning and Zoning Director if the School Board accepts feepayer's offer to dedicate or convey land to the School Board for school sites, or accepts an offer to provide capital educational facilities, or provide a contribution. In the event that the feepayer offers to dedicate or convey land, the feepayer shall provide to the School Board prior to the School Board acceptance of feepayer's offer, an environmental site assessment which specifically complies with the requirements set forth in American Society For Testing and Materials (ASTM) Standards on Environmental Site Assessments for Commercial Real Estate, Second Edition, E1527-94 Standard Practice for Environmental Site Assessments: Phase I Environmental Site Assessment Process and 1528-93 Standard Practice for Environmental Site Assessments: Transaction Screen Process. This requirement shall not be deemed exclusive and the School Board is authorized to require any and all conditions necessary prior to acceptance of feepayer's offer to dedicate or convey land. (c)The credit shall equal the amount of the fair market value of the land dedication, capital educational facility provided, or contribution given. If the School Board accepts such an offer, it shall inform the County Planning and Zoning Director of the dedication or contribution and the value of the credit. The County Planning and Zoning Director shall review the materials submitted by the School Board, and then determine the appropriate credit and/or reimbursement due against the sum otherwise due. Reimbursements to the feepayer shall be made with available revenue from the benefit district within which the capital educational facilities have been provided. The fee or portion satisfied by the conveyance of land or contribution of capital educational facilities shall be deemed paid when the conveyance or contribution has occurred. In administering this provision, the County Planning and Zoning Director shall comply with the requirements of Section 380.06(16), Florida Statutes and the procedures in the Educational Facilities Impact Fee Manual. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(9), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 97-92, § 2, 6-17-97; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-10. Benefit districts and trust funds.(a)For the purpose of ensuring feepayers receive sufficient benefit for fees paid, there are hereby created and established three (3) educational facilities impact fee benefit districts. The geographic locations of these benefit districts are reflected on Attachment "B", which exhibit is incorporated into and made a part of this chapter by reference. (b)A separate interest bearing trust account shall be established for each benefit district for the purpose of insuring that the fees collected under this chapter are designated for the accommodation of impacts reasonably attributable to the new residential development paying the impact fee. (c)All impact fees collected by the County Planning and Zoning Director shall be promptly deposited into the trust account designated for the benefit district where the residential development is located, except that general administrative costs not exceeding two (2) percent of the impact fee amount may be kept by the County and deposited into the administrative fund accounts of the County for the purpose of paying for the administrative costs. Miami-Dade County and the School Board shall enter into an Interlocal Agreement which provides for the periodic transfer of a portion of these administrative costs to the School Board to defray the School Board costs in assisting the County in the administration of this chapter. The Interlocal Agreement shall be adopted concurrent with this chapter. The County Planning and Zoning Director shall conduct a study every two (2) years to determine whether the two (2) percent charge continues to reasonably cover the cost of administering this chapter. The County shall adjust the administrative costs according to the findings of those studies and shall amend this provision of the chapter if the administrative costs need to be modified. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(10), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-11. Use of funds.(a)Any educational facilities impact fees collected under this chapter are expressly designated and earmarked for the accommodation of capital educational facility impacts reasonably attributable to new residential development as hereinafter provided in this section. (b)Miami-Dade County and the School Board shall enter into an Interlocal Agreement which provides for the periodic transfer of educational facilities impact fees from the County Planning and Zoning Director to the School Board. The Interlocal Agreement shall be adopted prior to the effective date of this chapter. The Interlocal Agreement shall authorize Miami-Dade County to perform an annual administrative audit of the School Board's use of impact fee funds, including an economic evaluation of the use of such funds. The Interlocal Agreement shall also provide that Miami-Dade County at its option may request assistance of the State Auditor General. Miami-Dade County under the Interlocal Agreement shall have the authority to withhold transfer of impact fees should the School Board refuse to submit to an audit as provided herein. The School Board shall spend these educational facility impact fees solely for capital educational facilities necessitated by new residential development consistent with the provisions of this chapter and as permitted by State Law. The Interlocal Agreement shall provide for a maintenance of effort with [respect] to existing capital expenditures by the School Board and not reduce its funding efforts by substituting funds derived from impact fees. These funds may be used to provide refunds pursuant to Section 33K-13. If the School Board fails to encumber these impact fees for the specified purposes within six (6) years of their payout, they shall be returned to the County Planning and Zoning Director for redeposit in the appropriate impact fee trust accounts, and refunded pursuant to Section 33K-13 (c)Impact fee funds from each trust account shall be spent within the benefit district from which the new residential development for which the fees are paid are located. The impact fee funds shall be spent in accordance with Section 33K-12 of this chapter. (d)Trust account funds shall be deemed to be spent or encumbered for expenditure on the assumption that the first money placed in the appropriate trust funds shall be the first money taken out when withdrawals are made. (e)Monies, including any accrued interest, not encumbered in any fiscal period shall be retained in the appropriate trust account until the next fiscal period except as provided by the refund provisions of this chapter. (f)A financial and management report on the impact fee trust accounts shall be prepared annually by the County Planning and Zoning Director in conjunction with the School Board and submitted to the County Manager within one hundred twenty (120) days following the end of the County's fiscal year. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(11), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-12. Impact fee expenditures.(a)Expenditures from the educational facilities impact fee accounts are authorized for the following:(1)Capital educational facilities, including facilities acquired through public educational facilities acquisitions agreement;(2)Planning, design, and construction plan preparation for capital educational facilities;(3)Permitting and fees for capital educational facilities;(4)Land and materials acquisition for capital educational facilities, including any costs of acquisition or condemnation;(5)Site preparation for land;(6)Relocation of utilities required by the construction of capital educational facilities;(7)Costs for utility extension or improvements, or other capital facilities like roads that are necessary to accommodate capital educational facility buildings; (8)Design and construction of new drainage facilities required by the construction of capital educational facilities and additions to capital educational facilities; (9)Landscaping and site preparation for capital educational facilities, including demucking, filling to flood criteria and compaction;(10)Construction management and inspection for capital educational facilities;(11)Surveying, soils and materials testing and removal of hazardous and solid waste materials related to the construction of capital educational facilities; and (12)Acquisition of furniture, fixtures and equipment (FF & E) for educational services.(b)Monies collected shall be deemed to be spent or encumbered for expenditures on the assumption that the first money placed in the appropriate trust fund shall be the first money taken out of the trust fund when monies are spent or encumbered. (c)The two (2) percent administrative fee portion of the impact fee shall be deposited into a separate operating account of the Miami-Dade County Department of Planning and Zoning and shall be used solely to pay the costs of administering the impact fee. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(12), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-13. Refund of impact fees paid.(a)The following shall apply upon expiration or revocation of a building permit.(1)If a building permit within Miami-Dade County encompassing feepaying development expires or is revoked, or if the feepayer has paid impact fees in excess of the amount required in this chapter, then the feepayer shall be entitled to a refund of the impact fees paid or the appropriate portion thereof, without interest, from the County Planning and Zoning Director, except that the County Planning and Zoning Director may retain the administrative cost portion of the fee for the administration of the impact fee calculation, collection, and refund. If the County Planning and Zoning Director has transmitted the impact fee funds to the School Board pursuant to Section 33K-11(b) that are required to be refunded, the School Board shall transmit back the monies to be refunded to the County Planning and Zoning Director. (2)In no event shall a refund be provided pursuant to this subsection 33K-13(a), for impact fees deemed expended pursuant to Section 33K-12 (3)Funds shall be deemed expended for the purposes of this chapter when a contract or agreement encumbering all or a portion of the payment of said funds shall be approved by final School Board action. (b)For the purpose of refunds under this section, monies collected shall be deemed to be spent or encumbered for expenditure on the assumption that the first money placed in the appropriate trust fund shall be the first money taken out of the fund when monies are spent or encumbered. (c)No refunds of educational facilities impact fees shall be given for new residential development which results in a negative impact fee computation. (d)Any impact fee trust funds not expended by the end of the fiscal quarter immediately following six (6) years from the date that the fee was paid shall be returned to the feepayer by the County Planning and Zoning Director with accrued interest; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to developments of regional impact with phased or long term buildout. The feepayer shall be required to submit a written request for refund to the County Planning and Zoning Director before issuance of the refund is authorized by the County Planning and Zoning Director. No refund of educational facilities impact fees shall be provided if the feepayer does not request such a refund prior to the expiration of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately following the six (6) year period the School Board has to spend the fee. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(13), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-14. Appeal of administrative decisions.(a)Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, decisions of the County Planning and Zoning Director under this chapter may be appealed by the feepayer or the School Board to the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council. Appeals of the decisions of the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council may be made by either the feepayer or the School Board to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with procedures specified in Section 33-314. The written decision of the Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested. Any appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the Council's written decision. (b)If the feepayer or School Board decides to appeal an administrative decision of the County Planning and Zoning Director, the feepayer or School Board shall first file a notice of administrative appeal with the Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator. All appeals shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the issuance of a written decision of the County Planning and Zoning Director and shall be accompanied by a letter which provides a full explanation of the request, the reason for the appeal, and any supporting documentation. The Developmental Impact Committee Coordinator shall schedule the appeal before the Council as soon as practically possible. The Developmental Impact Committee Executive Council shall vote to affirm, reject or revise the decision of the County Planning and Zoning Director. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(14), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-15. Educational facilities impact fee manual and periodic review.(a)The educational facilities impact fee manual shall be used for the administration of this chapter. The manual shall contain the following: (1)The standards and procedures for issuance of credits as set forth in Section 33K-9 (2)The standards, procedures and other matters required to administer Sections 33K-4 through 33K-15 (b)The County Planning and Zoning Director in conjunction with the School Board shall periodically review this chapter and, if appropriate, make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners for revisions to the chapter. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the benefits to a feepaying development are equitable in that the fee charged to the feepaying development shall not exceed a proportionate fair share of the costs of accommodating that new development, and that the procedures for administering the impact fee remains efficient. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(15), 5-2-95; Ord. No. 95-215, § 1, 12-5-95; Ord. No. 98-125, § 31, 9-3-98) Sec. 33K-16. Vested rights. Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior to the effective date of this chapter and on which there has been a good faith reliance and a substantial change of position. (Ord. No. 95-79, § 2(16), 5-2-95)

,APPENDIX A ORDINANCES CREATING MUNICIPALITIES [1]

ORDINANCE NO. 60-45 [2] ORDINANCE NO. 90-142 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, TO BE KNOWN AS KEY BISCAYNE, SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING BOUNDARIES OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY; PRESCRIBING POWERS; APPOINTING A CHARTER COMMISSION; REPEALING AND SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Home Rule Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the planning advisory board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Dade County Planning Advisory Board has forwarded its recommendations to the County Commission; and WHEREAS, the County Commission duly held and conducted a public hearing upon the question of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, the County Commission by Resolution No. R-743-90, adopted July 24, 1990, as amended by Resolution No. R-946-90, adopted September 11, 1990, called a special election to be held on November 6, 1990, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries the question of whether the creation of such new municipality shall be authorized by the County Commission; and WHEREAS, at the election held on November 6, 1990, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, the County Commission finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the Home Rule Charter governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, and that all steps necessary and lawfully taken, and that all applicable provisions of the law have been fully complied with and fulfilled. NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance. Section 2. The creation of a new municipality in Dade County, Florida, is authorized, and such municipality is hereby created subject to the provisions herein contained, to be known as Key Biscayne, and the boundaries of such municipality are hereby fixed, established and described as follows: A portion of Sections 31, 32 and 33, in Township 54 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida and a portion of Sections 4, 5 and 6, in Township 55 south, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: BEGIN at the point of intersection of the west line of Crandon Boulevard with the south line of Crandon Park, said point of intersection also being the northeast corner of Tract 1 of SUBDIVISION OF A PORTION OF MATHESON ESTATE, KEY BISCAYNE, DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 46 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run westerly along said south line of Crandon Park, also being the north line of said Tract 1 and its westerly extension to a point in the waters of Biscayne Bay, said point being 1,200 feet westerly of the most northwesterly corner of Tract B of FOURTH ADDITION TO TROPICAL ISLE HOMES SUBDIVISION, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 53 at Page 39 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run southwesterly, to a point in the waters if Biscayne Bay, said point being the point of intersection with the southwesterly extension of the southeasterly line of Lot 7 in Block 1 of MASHTA POINT SUBDIVISION, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 131 at Page 37 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, said point of intersection being 1,000 feet southwesterly of the most southeasterly corner of said Lot 7, as measured along the southwesterly extension of the southeasterly line of said Lot 7; thence run southeasterly to a point in the waters of Biscayne Bay, said point being the point of intersection of the southwesterly extension of the southeasterly line of Lot 17 of SMUGGLERS COVE, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 78 at Page 83 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida with the westerly extension of the South line of the waterway shown on the plat of CANOGA PROPERTIES-KEY BISCAYNE FLORIDA, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 65 at Page 88 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run easterly, along the south line of said waterway and its westerly and easterly extensions to a point in the Atlantic Ocean, 500 feet easterly of the Erosion Control Line, as said Erosion Control Line is shown on the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 74 at Page 26 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run northerly along a line 500 feet easterly of and parallel to the said Erosion Control Line to the point of intersection with the easterly extension of the said south line of Crandon Park; thence run westerly along the said south line of Crandon Park and its easterly extension to the Point of Beginning; AND BEGIN at the point of intersection of said south line of Crandon Park within the centerline of Crandon Boulevard, said centerline of Crandon Boulevard being the centerline of Tract 10 of said plat of SUBDIVISION OF A PORTION OF MATHESON ESTATE, KEY BISCAYNE, DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA and its northeasterly extension; thence run westerly along the south line of Crandon Park for a distance of 400 feet; thence run northerly at right angles to the south line of Crandon Park for a distance of 700 feet; thence run easterly parallel with the south line of Crandon Park for a distance of 750 feet more or less to said centerline of Crandon Boulevard; thence run southwesterly along said centerline of Crandon Boulevard for a distance of 783 feet more or less to the south boundary of Crandon Park and to the POINT OF BEGINNING. Section 3. A Charter Commission for the City of Key Biscayne is hereby created and established, consisting of five (5) electors residing within the boundaries of said municipality, who shall propose a municipal charter to be submitted to the electors residing within the boundaries of such municipality at a special election to be called by the County Commission at the request of such Charter Commission. Copies of such proposed charter shall be made available to the electors of the municipality by the Charter Commission not less than thirty (30) days before the election. The following are hereby appointed as members of the Charter Commission: The members of the Charter Commission shall select a chairperson from the membership thereof, and such other officers as may be deemed necessary or desirable. The appointments herein made shall become effective immediately upon each member filing with the Clerk of the County Commission his acceptance of such appointment and oath of office. Section 4. The City of Key Biscayne shall have all the powers and rights granted to and not withheld from municipalities by the Home Rule Charter and the Constitution and general laws of the State of Florida. Section 5. All special laws applying only to Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, in conflict with any provisions contained in this ordinance, are hereby repealed and superseded. Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance authorizing the creation of said new municipality shall become effective immediately upon the adoption and approval of a municipal charter by the electors residing within the boundaries; all other provisions herein contained shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment. PASSED AND ADOPTED: December 18, 1990. ORDINANCE NO. 95-73 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, KNOWN AS AVENTURA, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES; PRESCRIBING POWERS; APPOINTING A CHARTER COMMISSION; REPEALING AND SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY; INCLUSION IN THE CODE AND EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, in March 1994, the Planning Advisory Board forwarded its recommendations entitled "Aventura/Biscayne Incorporation Feasibility Study" to the County Commission; and WHEREAS, on February 21, 1995, the County Commission conducted a public hearing upon the issue of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, the County Commission by Resolution No. R-217-95, adopted on February 21, 1995, called a special election for April 11, 1995, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries the question of whether the County Commission shall be authorized to create such new municipality; and WHEREAS, at the election duly held on April 11, 1995, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, the County Commission finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the Dade County Home Rule Charter governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, and that all steps necessary have been lawfully taken, and that all applicable provisions of law have been fully complied with and fulfilled, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance. Section 2. The creation of a new municipality in Dade County, Florida, is authorized, and such municipality, known as Aventura (subject to the municipal charter provided for herein,) is hereby created, subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and the boundaries of such new municipality are hereby fixed, established and described as follows: Begin at the intersection of the centerline of the Florida East Coast Railway Company (FEC) one hundred foot wide right of way (R/W) with the county line between Dade County and Broward County, Florida; thence run easterly along the county line to the Westerly limit of the Town of Golden Beach; thence run Southerly along the Westerly limit of the Town of Golden Beach to the Southerly limit of the Town of Golden Beach; thence run Westerly along the Westerly extension of the Southerly limit of the Town of Golden Beach to the centerline of the Intracoastal Waterway: thence run Southerly along the center line of the Intracoastal Waterway and its Southerly extension to the Easterly extension of the North limit of the City of North Miami Beach; thence run Westerly along the Easterly extension of the North limit of the City of North Miami Beach, continuing Westerly, Southwesterly then Northerly and Westerly along the limits of the City of North Miami Beach to the centerline of the one hundred (100) foot wide FEC R/W; thence run Northeasterly along the center line of the one hundred (100) foot wide FEC R/W to the North County line and the Point of Beginning. A sketch of the boundaries of Aventura is attached to this ordinance as Exhibit "A." Section 3. A Charter Commission for the new municipality is hereby created and established, consisting of five electors residing within the boundaries of Aventura, who shall propose a municipal charter to be submitted to the electors residing within the boundaries of Aventura at a special election to be called by the County Commission at the request of such Charter Commission. To the extent consistent with the provisions of Section 5.03 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter, it is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners to schedule such election on Tuesday, November 7, 1995. Copies of the proposed municipal charter shall be made available to the electors of Aventura by the Charter Commission not less than thirty (30) days before the election. The following electors and residents of Aventura are hereby appointed as members of the Charter Commission: 1.Mr. Burton Young, Chairperson2.Dr. Mary L. Pankowski3.Mr. George Feffer4.Mr. Leonard Brenner5.Ms. Irene J. Barouh The members of the Charter Commission shall select such other officers from the membership thereof as may be deemed necessary or desirable. The appointments herein made shall become effective immediately upon each member filing with the Clerk of the County Commission his or her acceptance of such appointment and oath of office. Section 4. The new municipality shall have all the powers and rights granted to or not withheld from municipalities by the Constitution and general laws of the State of Florida, and Dade County Home Rule Charter, as may be amended from time to time. Section 5. All special laws applying only to Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, in conflict with any provisions contained in this ordinance, are hereby repealed and superseded. Section 6. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or provision of this ordinance is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected by such invalidity. Section 7. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 8. The provisions of this ordinance authorizing the creation of said new municipality shall become effective immediately upon the adoption and approval of a municipal charter by the electors residing within the boundaries; all other provisions herein contained shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment. PASSED AND ADOPTED: May 02, 1995. ORDINANCE NO. 95-207 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, KNOWN AS PINECREST, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES; PRESCRIBING POWERS; APPOINTING A CHARTER COMMISSION; REPEALING AND SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, on June 5, 1995, the Planning Advisory Board's recommendation entitled "Pinecrest Incorporation Feasibility Study" was delivered to the members of the Board of County Commissioners; and WHEREAS, the County Commission by Resolution No. R-809-95, adopted on June 8, 1995, called a special election for September 19, 1995, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries the question of whether the County Commission shall be authorized to create such new municipality; and WHEREAS, at the election duly held on September 19, 1995, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, on November 21, 1995, the County Commission conducted a public hearing upon the issue of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, the County Commission finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the Dade County Home Rule Charter governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, and that all steps necessary have been lawfully taken, and that all applicable provisions of law have been fully complied with and fulfilled, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance. Section 2. Subject to the provisions of this ordinance and to the municipal charter provided for herein, the creation of a new municipality in Dade County, Florida, is authorized, and such municipality, known as Pinecrest is hereby created and the boundaries of such new municipality are hereby fixed, established and described as follows: LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED NEW MUNICIPALITY PINECREST BEGIN at the intersection of the North line of Section 6, Township 55 South, Range 41 East, (being the centerline of N. Kendal Drive), with a line 35.00 feet Westerly of and parallel to the centerline of Old Cutler Road (Ingraham Highway); thence meander Southerly to Westerly, along the line that is 35.00 feet Westerly of and parallel to the centerline of said Old Cutler Road (being also the city limit line of the City of Coral Gables) to the point of intersection with the West line of the East 35.00 feet of the SE ¼ of Section 12, Township 55 South, Range 40 East; thence run Southerly, along the West line of the East 35.00 feet of the SE ¼ of said Section 12 (being the Westerly city limit line of the City of Coral Gables), to the South line of said Section 12; thence continue Southerly, along the Westerly city limit line of the City of Coral Gables and along the Westerly right-of-way line of said Old Cutler Road, to the point of intersection with the centerline of S. W. 128th Street (Lugo Road); thence run Easterly along the centerline of said S. W. 128th Street and along the city limit line of the City of Coral Gables, to the East line of Section 13, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence run Southerly, along the East line of the SE ¼ of said Section 13 and along the city limit line of the City of Coral Gables (also being the centerline of Red Road), to the point of intersection with the South line of said Section 13 (also being the centerline of S. W. 136th Street); thence run Westerly, along the South line of said Section 13 and continuing Westerly along the centerline of S. W. 136th Street (Howard Drive), to the point of intersection with the centerline of State Road No. 5 (U.S. #l); thence run Northeasterly along the centerline of said State Road No. 5, to the point of intersection with the centerline of Snapper Creek Canal (Canal No. C-2); thence run Easterly, along the centerline of said Snapper Creek Canal, to the point of intersection with the East line of the SW ¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence run Southerly, along the East line of the SW ¼ of said Section 36, to the point of intersection with the South line of said Section 36; thence run Easterly, along the South line of the SE ¼ of said Section 36, to the Southeast corner of said Section 36 (said last two (2) courses being along the city limit line of the City of South Miami); thence continue Easterly, along the North line of Section 6, Township 55 South, Range 41 East, to the POINT OF BEGINNING; all lying and being in Dade County, Florida. Prepared by: Dade County Public Works Dept. Right of Way Division, September 25, 1995 A sketch of the boundaries of Pinecrest is attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit "A." Section 3. A Charter Commission for the new municipality is hereby created and established, consisting of five electors residing within the boundaries of Pinecrest, who shall propose a municipal charter to be submitted to the electors residing within the boundaries of Pinecrest at a special election to be called by the County Commission at the request of such Charter Commission. Copies of the proposed municipal charter shall be made available to the electors of Pinecrest by the Charter Commission not less than thirty (30) days before the election. The following electors and residents of Pinecrest are hereby appointed as members of the Charter Commission: 1.Mr. Roger Carlton2.Ms. Lynn M. Dannheisser3.Ms. Sandra Diaz4.Mr. Gary C. Matzner5.Mr. Merrett R. Stierheim The members of the Charter Commission shall select such officers as may be deemed necessary or desirable. The appointments herein made shall become effective immediately upon each member filing with the Clerk of the County Commission his or her acceptance of such appointment and oath of office. Section 4. The new municipality shall have all the powers and rights granted to or not withheld from municipalities by the Constitution and general laws of the State of Florida, and Dade County Home Rule Charter, as may be amended from time to time. Section 5. All special laws applying only to Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, in conflict with any provisions contained in this ordinance, are hereby repealed and superseded. Section 6. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or provision of this ordinance is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected by such invalidity. Section 7. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 8. The provisions of this ordinance authorizing the creation of said new municipality shall become effective immediately upon the adoption and approval of a municipal charter by the electors residing within the boundaries; all other provisions herein contained shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment. PASSED AND ADOPTED: November 21, 1995 ORDINANCE NO. 00-112 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA., KNOWN AS THE CITY OF MIAMI LAKES, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES; PRESCRIBING POWERS; SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; REPEALING SECTION 2-8.7 OF THE CODE OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA RELATING TO CONTRACTED SERVICES FOR NEW MUNICIPALITIES; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, Chapter 20, Article II of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, provides a procedure for the incorporation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida; and WHEREAS, this Board has received the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board and the Boundaries Commission with regard to the proposed incorporation of the City of Miami Lakes; and WHEREAS, on September 17, 1996, May 23, 2000, and September 19, 2000, this Board conducted public hearings upon the issue of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-502-00, adopted on May 23, 2000, called a special election for September 5, 2000, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries of the City of Miami Lakes the question of whether the County Commission shall be authorized to create such new municipality; and WHEREAS, at the election duly held on September 5, 2000, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-91 1-00, adopted September 7, 2000, as amended by Resolution No. R-949-00 adopted September 19, 2000, created a charter commission comprised of five electors residing within the boundaries of the proposed new City of Miami Lakes; and WHEREAS, this Board is desirous of repealing provisions of the Code which limit the County's ability to provide services to new municipalities; and WHEREAS, the Miami Lakes Municipal Advisory Committee has met and submitted its report that provides that the city (a) remain a part of the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue District, the Miami-Dade Library System, and the Miami-Dade Solid Waste System, (b) contract with the Miami-Dade Police Department for a specific level of patrol staffing and all support and specialized services and, (c) contribute the equivalent of one mill of municipal property tax revenues to Miami-Dade County into a Municipal Service Trust Fund. The Miami Lakes Municipal Advisory Committee Report is attached hereto as Exhibit "B" and incorporated herein by reference (the "Report"); and WHEREAS, this Board hereby expresses its intent to authorize the creation of the new City of Miami Lakes effective at such time as the electors residing within the proposedboundaries of the City of Miami Lakes approve a municipal charter that incorporates the provisions of the Report and mandates implementation of the Report by an interlocal agreement with Miami-Dade County; and WHEREAS, this Board finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the [Miami-]Dade County Home Rule Charter and Code governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, all steps necessary have been lawfully taken, and all applicable provisions of law have been fully complied with and fulfilled, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance. Section 2. The creation of a new municipality in Miami-Dade County, Florida, is authorized, and such municipality, known as the City of Miami Lakes is hereby created, subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and the approval of the municipal charter provided for herein, and the boundaries of such new municipality are hereby fixed, established and described as follows: CITY OF MIAMI LAKES LEGAL DESCRIPTION BEGINNING at the Southeast corner of Section 10, Township 52 South, Range 40 East in Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence Northwesterly along the Center Line of NW 78 Avenue as shown on the plat of PALMS SPRING NORTH SECTION-A SUBDIVISION, recorded in Plat Book 71 at Page 42 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida, to the Center Line of NW 170 Street as shown on the aforesaid plat of PALMS SPRING NORTH SECTION-A SUBDIVISION; thence Southwesterly along the Center Line of said NW 170 Street to the North line of the South 40 feet of Section 10, Township 52 South, Range 40 East; thence Westerly along the said North line of the South 40 feet of Sections 10 and 9, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, said line also being the Center Line of NW 170 Street, to the Center Line of NW 89 Avenue as shown on the plat of ROYAL LANDINGS SUBDIVISION, recorded in Plat Book 154 at Page 54 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence continue Westerly along the Center Line of NW 170 Street to the East Limited Access right of way line of State Road No. 93 (I-75) as shown on the Florida State Department of Transportation Right-of-Way Map Section No. 87075-2402 dated December 1, 1978; thence South, Southeasterly, Southwesterly and Southeasterly along the said East Limited Access right of way line of I-75 through Sections 16 and 21, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, to the North line of the South 55 feet of said Section 21, said line also being the North right of way line of the NW 138 Street canal; thence South for 55 feet to the South line of said Section 21, said line also being the North boundary line of the City of Hialeah; thence Easterly along the South line of Sections 21, 22, 23 and 24, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, also being the North boundary line of the City of Hialeah, to the East line of said Section 24; thence continue Easterly along the Easterly extension of the South line of said Section 24, to the East line of the West 50 feet of Section 19, Township 52 South, Range 41 East in Miami-Dade County, Florida, said line being also the Center Line of NW 57 Avenue; thence Northerly along the said Center Line of NW 57 Avenue through Sections 19, 18, and 7, to the South Limited Access right-of-way line of the State Road No. 826 (Palmetto Expressway) as shown on the Florida State Department of Transportation Right-of-Way Map Section 8726-103 recorded in Road Plat Book 60 at Page 91 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence Westerly along the South Limited Access right-of-way line of the said Palmetto Expressway, to the East line of Section 13, Township 52 South, Range 40 East; thence continue Westerly along the South Limited Access right-of-way line of the said Palmetto Expressway through Sections 13 and 14, to a point of curvature of a curve at the bend of the said Palmetto Expressway with NW 77 Avenue; thence Southwesterly along the are of said curve, also being the Southwesterly Limited Access right-of-way line of the aforesaid Palmetto Expressway, to the South line of Tract 27 of FLORIDA FRUIT LANDS COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION NO 1 of Section 14, Township 52 South, Range 40 East in Miami-Dade County, Florida, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 2 at Page 17 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence Westerly along the South line of said Tract 27 to the East line of the West 40 feet of said Section 14, said line also being the Center Line of NW 77 Avenue as shown on the plat of ADAIR SUBDIVISION, recorded in Plat Book 151 at Page 35 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence Northerly along the said East line of the West 40 feet of said Section 14, said line also being the Center Line of NW 77 Avenue as shown on the aforesaid plat of ADAIR SUBDIVISION, to the Center Line of NW 169 Street as shown on the plat of TURTLE RUN ESTATES SUBDIVISION, recorded in Plat Book 146 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence Northwesterly along the Center Line of NW 169 Street as shown on the aforesaid plat of TURTLE RUN ESTATES SUBDIVISION to the Southeast corner of said Section 10 and the POINT OF BEGINNING. A sketch of the boundaries of the City of Miami Lakes is attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit "A." Section 3. The new municipality shall have all the powers and rights granted to or not withheld from municipalities by the Constitution and general laws of the State of Florida, and the [Miami-]Dade County Home Rule Charter, as may be amended from time to time. Section 4. Section 2-8.7 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida is hereby repealed in its entirety. Section 5. All special laws applying only to Miami-Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Miami-Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution or the Home Rule Charter to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, or any prior ordinances or resolutions of Miami-Dade County, in conflict with any provisions contained in this ordinance, are hereby repealed and superseded. Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 8. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. Section 9. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. PASSED AND ADOPTED: Sept. 19, 2000 ORDINANCE NO. 02-118 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, CURRENTLY KNOWN AS PALMETTO BAY, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES; PRESCRIBING POWERS; APPROVING UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARY CHANGE OF AN AREA KNOWN AS KINGS BAY FROM THE VILLAGE OF PALMETTO BAY TO CORAL GABLES; SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, Chapter 20, Article II of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, provides a procedure for the incorporation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida; and WHEREAS, this Board has received the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board and the Boundaries Commission with regard to the proposed incorporation of the area currently identified as Palmetto Bay; and WHEREAS, on September 17, 1996 and November 20, 2001, this Board conducted public hearings upon the issue of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-1296-01, adopted on November 20, 2001, called a special election for February 5, 2002, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries of Palmetto Bay the question of whether the County Commission shall be authorized to create such new municipality; and WHEREAS, at the election duly held on February 5, 2002, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-213-02, adopted February 26, 2002, created a charter commission comprised of five electors residing within the boundaries of the proposed municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board hereby expresses its intent to authorize the creation of the new municipality currently known as Palmetto Bay conditioned upon the electors residing within the proposed boundaries of such municipality approving a municipal charter that substantially incorporates the provisions of the Report and mandating that the municipality enter into an interlocal agreement with Miami-Dade County to implement provisions of such charter, as necessary, pertaining to the municipality's relationship with the County; and WHEREAS, this Board finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the Dade County Home Rule Charter and Code governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, all steps necessary have been lawfully taken, and all applicable provisions of law have been fully complied with and fulfilled, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance. Section 2. The creation of a new municipality in Miami-Dade County, Florida, is authorized, and such municipality, known currently as Palmetto Bay subject to a name change to be determined upon adopting a charter, is hereby created, subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and the approval of the municipal charter provided for herein, and the boundaries of such new municipality are hereby fixed, established and described as follows: See Exhibit A which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. A sketch of the boundaries of the proposed municipality is attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit "C." Section 3. In the event that: (a) the charter of the proposed municipality is approved by the electors of the area, (b) the City of Coral Gables adopts a resolution requesting the boundaries of its city be amended to include the area known as Kings Bay, and (c) the electors of Kings Bay approve such separation and change of municipal boundaries, the Board of County Commissioners hereby approves, subject to the provisions of Palmetto Bay's Charter, such separation from Palmetto Bay and the change to the municipal boundaries of the City of Coral Gables which would effectuate the municipal boundary change transferring from Palmetto Bay to the City of Coral Gables the area known as Kings Bay, as is more particularly described below: See Exhibit B which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. It is provided that the approval of the boundary changes as provided in this section shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the Kings Bay area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever collect and receive all utility tax revenues accruing within the Kings Bay area in the same manner as though the Kings Bay area is a part of the unincorporated area of the County. It is further provided that the approval of the boundary changes as provided in this section shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever collect and dispose of all residential waste within the Kings Bay area in the same manner as though such area is a part of the unincorporated area of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Failure to comply with prerequisites (a), (b) and (c) of this section within two hundred and seventy (270) days of the adoption of the proposed municipality's charter shall render this section null and void and of no force and effect and shall extinguish the County's approval as provided herein. Section 4. All special laws applying only to Miami-Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Miami-Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution or the Home Rule Charter to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, or any prior ordinances or resolutions of Miami-Dade County, in conflict with any provisions contained in this ordinance, are hereby repealed and superseded. Section 5. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 6. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 7. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. Section 8. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. PASSED AND ADOPTED: July 9, 2002 ORDINANCE NO. 03-59 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, KNOWN AS THE CITY OF MIAMI GARDENS, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES; PRESCRIBING POWERS; SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, Chapter 20, Article II of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, provides a procedure for the incorporation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida; and WHEREAS, this Board has received the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board with regard to the proposed incorporation of the area currently identified as Miami Gardens; and WHEREAS, on December 3, 2002, this Board conducted a public hearing upon the issue of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-1417-02 adopted on December 3, 2002, called a special election for January 28, 2003, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries of Miami Gardens the question of whether the County Commission shall be authorized to create such new municipality, and WHEREAS, at the election duly held on January 28, 2003, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-121-03, adopted February 20, 2003, created a charter commission comprised of five electors residing within the boundaries of the proposed municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board hereby expresses its intent to authorize the creation of the new municipality known as Miami Gardens conditioned upon the electors residing within the proposed boundaries of such municipality approving a municipal charter that substantially incorporates the provisions of the North Dade Municipal Advisory Committee Report and mandating that the municipality enter into an interlocal agreement with Miami-Dade County to implement provisions of such charter, as necessary, pertaining to the municipality's relationship with the County, and WHEREAS, this Board finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the Dade County Home Rule Charter governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, all steps necessary have been lawfully taken, and all applicable provisions of law have been fully complied with and fulfilled, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance. Section 2. The creation of a new municipality in Miami-Dade County, Florida, is authorized, and such municipality, known currently as Miami Gardens subject to a name change to be determined upon adopting a charter, is hereby created, subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and the approval of the municipal charter provided for herein, and the boundaries of such new municipality are hereby fixed, established and described as set forth in "Exhibit A" hereto and incorporated herein by reference. A sketch of the boundaries of the proposed municipality is attached to this ordinance as Exhibit "B." Section 3. All special laws applying only to Miami-Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Miami-Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution or the Home Rule Charter to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, or any prior ordinances or resolutions of Miami-Dade County in conflict with the procedures for the incorporation of Miami Gardens, are hereby superseded. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: April 8, 2003 ORDINANCE NO. 03-88 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, KNOWN AS THE CITY OF DORAL, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES; PRESCRIBING POWERS; SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, Chapter 20, Article II of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, provides a procedure for the incorporation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida; and WHEREAS, this Board has received the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board with regard to the proposed incorporation of the area currently identified as Doral; and WHEREAS, on October 8, 2002, this Board conducted a public hearing upon the issue of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-1358-02 adopted on November 19, 2002 called a special election for January 28, 2003, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries of Doral the question of whether the County Commission shall be authorized to create such new municipality; and WHEREAS, at the election duly held on January 28 2003, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution No. R-152-03, adopted February 20, 2003, created a charter commission comprised of five electors residing within the boundaries of the proposed municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board hereby expresses its intent to authorize the creation of the new municipality currently known as Doral conditioned upon the electors residing within the proposed boundaries of such municipality approving a municipal charter that substantially incorporates the provisions of the Doral Area Municipal Advisory Committee Report as modified by the Board pursuant to Resolution R-1358-02 and mandating that the municipality enter into an interlocal agreement with Miami-Dade County to implement provisions of such charter, as necessary, pertaining to the municipality's relationship with the County; and WHEREAS, this Board finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the Dade County Home Rule Charter governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, all steps necessary have been lawfully taken, and all applicable provisions of law have been fully complied with and fulfilled, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance.Section 2.The creation of a new municipality in Miami-Dade County, Florida is authorized, and such municipality, known as the City of Doral, is hereby created, subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and the approval of the municipal charter provided for herein, and the boundaries of such new municipality are hereby fixed, established and described as set forth in "Exhibit A" hereto and incorporated herein by reference. A sketch of the boundaries of the proposed municipality is attached to this ordinance as Exhibit "B." Section 3.All special laws applying only to Miami-Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Miami-Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution or the Home Rule Charter to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, or any prior ordinances or resolutions of Miami-Dade County in conflict with the procedures for the incorporation of Doral, are hereby superseded. Section 4.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: April 22, 2003 ORDINANCE NO. 05-121 ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING CREATION OF A NEW MUNICIPALITY IN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, CURRENTLY KNOWN AS CUTLER RIDGE, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF A MUNICIPAL CHARTER BY QUALIFIED ELECTORS; PRESCRIBING THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES; PRESCRIBING POWERS; SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, Section 5.05 of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Amendment and Charter provides that the Board of County Commissioners may authorize the creation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida, after hearing the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board, after a public hearing, and after an affirmative vote of the majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, Chapter 20, Article II of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, provides a procedure for the incorporation of new municipalities in the unincorporated areas of Miami-Dade County, Florida; and WHEREAS, this Board has received the recommendations of the Planning Advisory Board with regard to the proposed incorporation of the area currently identified as Cutler Ridge; and WHEREAS, on July 13, 2004, this Board conducted a public hearing upon the issue of creating such new municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution R-1318-04 adopted on November 30, 2004 called a special election for January 11, 2005, for the purpose of submitting to the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries of Cutler Ridge the question of whether the County Commission shall be authorized to create such new municipality; and WHEREAS, at the election duly held on January 11, 2005, the creation of such new municipality was approved by a majority of the electors voting and residing within the proposed boundaries; and WHEREAS, this Board by Resolution R-280-05, adopted March 1, 2005, created a charter commission comprised of electors residing within the boundaries of the proposed municipality; and WHEREAS, this Board hereby expresses its intent to authorize the creation of the new municipality currently known as Cutler Ridge conditioned upon the electors residing within the proposed boundaries of such municipality approving a municipal charter that substantially incorporates the provisions of the Cutler Ridge Municipal Advisory Committee Report and mandating that the municipality enter into an interlocal agreement with Miami-Dade County to implement provisions of such charter, as necessary, pertaining to the municipality's relationship with the County; and WHEREAS, this Board finds and determines that all provisions and requirements of the Miami-Dade County Home Rule Amendment and Charter governing the creation of a new municipality have been complied with, all steps necessary have been taken, and all applicable provisions of law have been fully complied with and fulfilled, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated into this ordinance.Section 2.The creation of a new municipality in Miami-Dade County, Florida is authorized, and such municipality, currently known as Cutler Ridge, is hereby created, subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and the approval of the municipal charter provided for herein, and the boundaries of such new municipality are hereby fixed, established, and described as set forth in "Exhibit A" attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. A sketch of the boundaries of the proposed municipality is attached to this ordinance as "Exhibit B". Section 3.All special laws applying only to Miami-Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Miami-Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution or the Home Rule Charter to supersede, nullify, modify, or amend, or any part of any such law, or any prior ordinances or resolutions of Miami-Dade County in conflict with the procedures for the incorporation of Cutler Ridge, are hereby superseded. Section 4.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section", "article", or other appropriate word. Section 6.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: June 21, 2005

,APPENDIX B ORDINANCES CHANGING MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES [1]

ORD. NO. 58-9. HIALEAH (Adopted March 6, 1958) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and Section 5 of Article I of the Charter of the City of Hialeah (Chapter 30807, Laws of Florida, Acts of 1955) is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, namely: Tract 8 and the E½ of Tract 9; all of Tracts 62 and 63 and the E½ of Tract 64, FLORIDA FRUIT LANDS COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION, in Section 25, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, according to the Plat thereof, recorded in Plat Book 2, at Page 17, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida Tract 43 in Section 25, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, of Florida Fruit Land Company's Subdivision, No. 1, according to the Plat thereof, recorded in Plat Book 2, at Page 17, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida AND Tract 42 in Section 25, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, of FLORIDA FRUIT LAND COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION, No. 1, according to the Plat thereof, recorded in Plat Book 2, at Page 17, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. ORD. NO. 58-12. SOUTH MIAMI (Adopted April 22, 1958) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of South Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and Article I, Section 10 of the Charter of the City of South Miami, Florida, is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of South Miami of the following described lands situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: The N½ of the NE¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, also known and described as "Fuchs Park". ORD. NO. 59-17. HIALEAH (Adopted June 23, 1959) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: The South Half (S-1/2) of the Northwest Quarter (NW-1/4) of Section 36, Township 52 South, Range 40 East. ORD. NO. 59-19. CORAL GABLES (Adopted June 30, 1959) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Coral Gables, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, but the annexation to the City of Coral Gables of a strip of land on the east side of Old Cutler Road more particularly described in Resolution No. 7626 [below] passed and adopted on December 16, 1958, by the Commission of the City of Coral Gables, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. RESOLUTION NO. 7626That Resolution No. 7474, passed and adopted September 9, 1958, be and the same hereby is amended to read as follows:That the Dade County Commission is hereby requested by the City of Coral Gables to enact the proper laws by which the municipal boundaries of The City of Coral Gables will be changed, but only insofar as to follow the contour of Old Cutler Road (formerly known as Ingraham Highway) to conform to said Old Cutler Road as it now exists, to-wit: Beginning at the Northwest corner of Section 7, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence South along the Range Line between Ranges 40 and 41 East to the Southwest corner of Section 30, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, thence East along the South line of said Section 30 to the Southwest corner of the East One Half (E½) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 30, thence North along the West line of the East One Half (E½) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 30 to the Northwest corner thereof; thence East along the North line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 30 to the Northeast corner of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 30; thence South along the East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 30 to the Southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 30; thence East along the South line of said Section 30 to the Southeast corner thereof and the Northwest corner of Section 32, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence along the North line of said Section 32 to the Northeast corner of the West One Half (W½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of said Section 32; thence South along the East line of the West One Half (W½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of said Section 32 to the Southeast corner of lot "E" of the Mary W. Dorn Homestead, as shown upon the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 48, at page 37, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence West along the South line of Lots "E", "D", "C" and "B" of Mary W. Dorn Homestead as aforesaid, and along the North boundary of the land sold by Harley Staudt to Samuel E. Larkin as shown by deed in Deed Book 42, at page 167, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, to a point 210 feet East of the West line of the aforesaid Section 32; thence North along a line parallel with and 210 feet East of the West line of said Section 32 to a point 210 feet South of the North line of said Section 32; thence West along a line parallel with and 210 feet South of the North line of said Section 32 to the West line of said Section 32; thence South along the East line of Section 31, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, and along the West line of Section 32, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, to its intersection with the Easterly line of Lot 1 of the subdivision of Cocoa Plum Estates, as shown upon the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 49, at page 93, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, and a point on the Westerly right-of-way of Old Cutler Road; thence in a southerly direction along the Easterly line of Lot 1 of Cocoa Plum Estates, as aforesaid, and along a line 85 feet from, measured at right angles to, the Westerly line of Blocks 78 and 118 as shown upon the Plat of Biscayne Bay Section, Part One, Plat "E", as recorded in Plat Book 25, at page 53, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, to the intersection thereof with the North line of Section 6, Township 55 South, Range 41 East; thence continue in a Southerly direction along the Westerly right-of-way line of Ingraham Highway (now Old Cutler Road) as the same is shown on the Amended Plat of Journey's End, recorded in Plat Book 34, at page 89, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, and/or the Westerly right-of-way line of Ingraham Highway (now Old Cutler Road) as the same is shown on the Plat of Hammock Lake Park Subdivision, recorded in Plat Book 44, at page 87, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, and/or along the Westerly right-of-way line of Old Cutler Road as the same is shown on the plat of Relocation of Old Cutler Road, recorded in Plat Book 50 at page 56, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, which latest location of the Westerly right-of-way line of Old Cutler Road as shown on the aforesaid plats shall obtain, to the intersection of said Westerly right-of-way line of Old Cutler Road with the South boundary of the Northeast (NE¼) of Section 6, Township 55 South, Range 41 East, and the North boundary of Matheson Hammock, a Dade County Park; thence Southerly along a line 35 feet Westerly from the center line of the present pavement of Old Cutler Road, measured at right angles to said center line, to the northeasterly R/W line of SW 101 Street as shown on the Plat of Snapper Creek Lakes Subdivision recorded in Plat Book 57 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence southwesterly along the westerly R/W line of (Ingraham Highway) Old Cutler Road, which is 35′ westerly of as measured at right angles to and parallel to the center line of Old Cutler Road as shown on the above plat of Snapper Creek Lakes Subdivision to its intersection with the southerly line of the NW¼ of Section 7, Township 55 South, Range 41 East; thence in a southwesterly direction along the westerly line of a 70′ R/W for Old Cutler Road dedicated by Miami Corporation and recorded in Deed Book No. 2091 at Page 36 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, to a point on the south line of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 7, said point is 323.80 feet east of SW corner of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 7 as measured along said south line; thence west along the south line of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 7 and its extension westerly for a distance of 358.80 feet to a point, said point being 35′ west of the east line of Section 12, Township 55 South, Range 40 East; thence south along a line which is 35′ west of as measured at right angles and parallel to the east line of Section 12, Township 55 South, Range 40 East to a point on the south line of the SE¼ of said Section 12; thence south and southwesterly along a line which is 35′ west of and parallel and/or concentric with the center line of Old Cutler Road as the same is shown on the plat of Town and Ranch Estates recorded in Plat Book 50 at Page 46 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, to a point of intersection with the center line of SW 128 Street which is the south line of the NE¼ of Section 13, Township 55 South, Range 40 East; thence east along the south line of said NE¼ to the SE corner thereof; thence south along the East line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 13, and along the East line of Section 24, Township 55 South, Range 40 East, and its prolongation South to the intersection thereof with a line drawn at right angles to a straight line connecting the center of the North end of the Intracoastal Waterway channel through Featherbed Bank in Biscayne Bay with the center of draw bridge of the Rickenbacker Causeway across Biscayne Bay, and through the Northerly end of Chicken Key; thence in a Southeasterly direction along the last described course to the intersection thereof with a straight line connecting the center of the North end of the Intracoastal Waterway channel through Featherbed Bank in Biscayne Bay with the center of the draw bridge of the Rickenbacker Causeway across Biscayne Bay; thence in a Northerly direction along the aforesaid straight line connecting the center of the North end of the Intracoastal Waterway channel through Featherbed Bank in Biscayne Bay with the center of the draw bridge of the Rickenbacker Causeway across Biscayne Bay to the intersection thereof with the prolongation East of the North line of the South One Half (S½) of the South One Half (S½) of Section 28, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence West along the prolongation East of the North line of the South One Half (S½) of the South One Half (S½) of said Section 28, and along the North line of the South One Half (S½) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of Section 29, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, to the West line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 29; thence North along the West line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 29, and continuing North along the West line of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 29, and along the West line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of Section 20, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, to a point four hundred thirty and eighty-nine one hundredths (430.89) feet North of the Southwest corner of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 20; thence East parallel to and four hundred thirty and eighty-nine one hundredths (430.89) feet North of the South line of the said Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of Section 20 to a point one thousand and ten and sixty-seven one hundredths (1010.67) feet East of the West line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 20; thence North parallel with the said West line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of Section 20 to the East and West center line of Section 20; thence East along the East and West center line of said Section 20 to the center line of Brooker Street as shown upon the Plat of McFarlane Homestead and St. Albans Park, recorded in the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, in Plat Book 5, Page 81; thence North along the center line of said Brooker Street to the center line of Read Street (now known as Oak Avenue) as shown upon the said Plat of McFarlane Homestead and St. Albans Park; thence East along the center line of said Read Street to the West line of the East Quarter (E¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 20; thence North along said West line of the East Quarter (E¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 20 to the Northeast corner of the South One Half (S½) of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of Section 20; thence West along the North line of said South One Half (S½) of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) to the East line of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 20; thence North along the last mentioned East line, and continuing North along the East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of Section 17, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, to the South line of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 17; thence East along the South line last mentioned to the East line of the West One Half (W½) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 17; thence North along the last mentioned East line to the North line of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of said Section 17; thence East along the last mentioned North line to the East line of said Section 17; thence North along said last mentioned East line, and continuing North along the East line of Sections 8 and 5 of Township 54 South, Range 41 East, to the center line of Palma Court, as shown by the Plat of Flagler Street Section of Coral Gables, as recorded in Plat Book 10, Page 12, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence East and North along the center line of said Palma Court to a point one hundred sixty-five (165) feet South of the North line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of Section 4, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence East from said point one hundred and twenty-two one hundredths (100.22) feet; thence Northerly one hundred and sixty-five (165) feet to the North line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of Section 4, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, thence West along the North line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 4 to the intersection thereof with the prolongation North of the West boundary of the East ninety-three and six tenths (93.6) feet of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 1, of Kirkland Heights, according to Plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 3, at Page 214, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence South along the prolongation North and along the West boundary of the East ninety-three and six tenths (93.6) feet of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 1, of Kirkland Heights, as aforesaid, to the North line of Block 1 of Flagler Street Section of Coral Gables as recorded in Plat Book 10, at Page 12, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence West along the North line of Block 1 of said Flagler Street Section of Coral Gables and its prolongation West to a point on the West line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of Section 4, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence South along the West line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 4 to the intersection thereof with the prolongation East of the North line of Block 3 of said Flagler Street Section of Coral Gables; thence West along the prolongation East and along the North line of Block 3 to the West line of said Block 3; thence South along the West lines of Blocks 3 and 4 to the North line of Block 12; thence West along the North line of Block 12 to the West line of said Block 12; thence South along the West lines of Blocks 12 and 13, and the prolongation South thereof, all as shown by the Plat of Flagler Street Section of Coral Gables as aforesaid, to the Southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of Section 5, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, Dade County, Florida, and Northwest corner of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of Section 8, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence West along the North line of Section 8, Township 54 South, Range 41 East to the Northwest corner of the East One Half (E½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 8; thence South along the West line of Blocks 1, 10, 18, 27 and 34, and the prolongation North and South thereof, of Revised Plat of Coral Gables Douglas Section, as shown by plat recorded in Plat Book 25, at Page 69, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, to the intersection thereof with the North line of Block 1 and/or the prolongation East thereof of Coral Gables Section "K", as shown by plat recorded in Plat Book 8, at Page 33, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence West along the North line of Block 1 of the aforesaid plat of Coral Gables Section "K" and its prolongation West to a point on the East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of Section 8, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, thence North along the East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 8, to the Northeast corner of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 8; thence West along the North line of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 8 to the Northwest corner of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of said Section 8 and the Southeast corner of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of Section 7, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence North along the East line of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 7 to the intersection thereof with the prolongation West of the South line of Block 81 of the Revised Plat of Coral Gables Granada Section, as shown by Plat records in Plat Book 8, at Page 113, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence East along the prolongation West of the South line and along the South line of Block 81, of said Revised Plat of Coral Gables Granada Section to the Southeast corner of said Block 81; thence North along the East line of Block 81 of the Revised Plat of Coral Gables Granada Section as aforesaid, and its prolongation North, to a point on the North line of Section 8, Township 54 South, Range 41 East; thence West along the North line of said Section 8 to the Northwest corner thereof; thence West along the North line of Section 7, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, to the point of beginning. ORD. NO. 59-20. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted June 30, 1959) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described lands situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: Lot Three (3) of Block Eleven (11) of JULIA B. TUTTLE SUBDIVISION, consisting of approximately 13½ acres. ORD. NO. 59-33. HIALEAH (Adopted August 25, 1959) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: Tracts Six (6) to Eleven (11), inclusive, and Tracts Forty-Nine (49) to Sixty-Four (64), inclusive, of FLORIDA FRUIT LAND COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION, in Section 35, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Plat Book 2, at Page 17 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. ORD. NO. 60-3. HIALEAH (Adopted January 19, 1960) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: Tract Six (6) of the Florida Fruit Land Company's Subdivision in the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of Section 1, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, as recorded in Plat Book 2, at Page 17, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. ORD. NO. 60-43. HIALEAH (Adopted November 29, 1960) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following described lands situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: That portion of Section 2, Township 53S, Range 40E which lies NORTH of N.W. 103rd Street and Sections 25, 26, 35 and 36 of Township 52S, Range 40E, except for those areas which are presently in the corporate limits of the City of Hialeah; and, except for that area of Section 36, Township 52S, Range 40E, more specifically described as: Block 28 and Blocks 30 through 34 of the Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section A, Plat Book 57, page 17; Blocks 35 through 40 of the Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section B, Plat Book 57, page 31; Blocks 41 through 46 of the Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section C, Plat Book 57, page 38; Blocks 47 through 53 of the Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section D, Plat Book 57, page 46; Blocks 66 and 67 of the Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section F, Plat Book 62, page 72; Replat of Tracts A and B, Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section A; and Tract A, Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section B, Plat Book 57, page 49; That portion of an unplatted tract of land which lies between Lots 4 and 5, Block 34 of the Fourth Addition to Palm Springs Subdivision, Section A, Plat Book 57, page 17; Together with that portion of Section 2, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, lying South of the North right-of-way of Northwest 103rd Street. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the following express conditions and reservations, namely: (a)That this ordinance shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said County Franchise in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. (b)That a proposed land use map shall be prepared jointly by the City of Hialeah and the Dade County Planning Department to determine the appropriate use of the lands hereinabove described and feasible means of access to the Palmetto Expressway, which shall govern and control said annexed lands. ORD. NO. 60-37. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted November 22, 1960) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: The East 235 feet of the North 275 feet of the NE¼ of the NE¼, Section 25, Township 52 South, Range 41 East, consisting of 1.48 acres, more or less, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 727 [2] passed and adopted on September 13, 1960, by the Council of the City of North Miami, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 61-3. FLORIDA CITY [3] (Adopted January 24, 1961) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Florida City are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Florida City of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: The NE¼ of the SW¼; E½ of the NW¼ of the SW¼; all in Section 25, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Dade County, Florida, The SE¼ of the SW¼ of Section 25, Township 57 South, and Range 38 East. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the following express conditions and reservations, namely: (a)That this ordinance shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said County Franchise in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. (b)That the City Commission of the City of Florida City shall adopt and effectuate a land use plan governing the lands annexed, to be prepared in conjunction and cooperation with the County Planning Department, which shall conform to the comprehensive land use plan and provide for (1) a buffer of single family homes north and west of the canal as shown on the tentative plot of the area, titled "Terra Mia Estates", (2) a park buffer strip of approximately 100 feet along the east side of said plot and (3) a centralized shopping area within the area to be annexed instead of a business strip along Roberts Road as shown on said plat. ORD. NO. 61-35. SOUTH MIAMI (Adopted July 25, 1961) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of South Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of South Miami, Florida, of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: The West½ of the NE¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 24, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, less the East 66 feet thereof. (Ord. No. 61-35, § 1, 7-25-61) Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said County Franchise in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. Section 3. This ordinance enacted under and pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.04(B) of the Home Rule Charter and Ordinance No. 60-42, and in compliance with the procedures therein provided, shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its adoption. ORD. NO. 61-42. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted Oct. 3, 1961) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described lands situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: That portion of the S½ of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SW¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, lying East of the Florida East Coast Railway right-of-way, consisting of approximately 4.3 acres. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said county franchise in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the county. ORD. NO. 61-43. NORTH MIAMI BEACH (Adopted Oct. 3, 1961) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami Beach are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami Beach, of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: That portion of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 6, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, lying Easterly of State Road No. 9, Dade County, Florida, consisting of approximately 10 acres. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said county franchise in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. ORD. NO. 62-16. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted March 27, 1962) Section 1. [4] The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: All that part of the South Half (S½) of the North Half ( N½) of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼) of the Southwest Quarter (SW¼) of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, lying Westerly of the East Right-of-Way line of the Florida East Coast Railway Company. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said county franchise in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. (Ord. No. 62-27, § 1, 6-19-62) ORD. NO. 62-29. NORTH BAY VILLAGE (Adopted July 3, 1962) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of North Bay Village are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to North Bay Village of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: A parcel of submerged land (now filled) in Biscayne Bay situated in Section 9, Township 53 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida, Commencing at the ½ mile post on the West line of Section 9, Township 53 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida, run North 88°41′24″ East along the center line of the 79th Street Causeway highway right-of-way (100 feet wide) a distance of 1,560 feet to a point; Thence North 1°37′08″ West 55.0 feet to a point of beginning of the parcel of land herein described: Thence North 1°37′08″ West 600.0 feet Thence North 88°41′24″ East 400.0 feet Thence South 1°37′08″ East 600.0 feet Thence South 88°41′24″ West 400.0 feet to the point of beginning; Containing 5.5 acres more or less; plus a five foot (5′) strip bordering the South boundaries of the above described 5.5 acres tract which is described as follows: Commence at the intersection of the West line of Section 9, Township 53 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida, with the center line of the N.E. 79th Street Causeway as shown on plat recorded in Plat Book 25, at page 70 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence North 88°41′25″ East along the center line of the aforesaid Northeast 79th Street Causeway for a distance of 1,560 feet to a point, thence North 1°37′8″ West for a distance of 50.0 feet to a point on the North right-of-way line of the said Northeast 79th Street Causeway and the point of beginning of the parcel of land herein described; thence North 88°41′24″ East along the North right-of-way line of the said Northeast 79th Street Causeway for a distance of 400.0 feet to a point, thence North 1°37′8″ West for a distance of 5.0 feet to a point; thence South 88°41′24″ West along a line 5.0 feet North of and parallel with the North right-of-way line of said Northeast 79th Street Causeway for a distance of 4000 feet to a point thence South 1°37′8″ East for a distance of 5.0 feet to the point of beginning of the parcel of land herein described. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said County franchise, and any extensions thereof, in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. ORD. NO. 63-6. MIAMI (Adopted March 5, 1963) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, to provide for the annexation to the City of Miami and the inclusion within the official boundaries of such municipality of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: Those certain lands known as "Primrose Park" consisting of approximately 13.2 acres, and more particularly described as follows: Commencing at the southeast corner of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of Section 2, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, run South 89°59′55″ West along the South line of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of Section 2 for a distance of 1360.10 feet more or less to a point of intersection with the Westerly right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railway; thence run North 1°31′38″ East along the said Westerly boundary of the Florida East Coast Railway right-of-way for a distance of 647.27 feet to a point on the Northerly bank of the Tamiami Canal, said point being the Point of Beginning of the hereinafter described parcel of land; thence continue North 1°31′38″ East along said Westerly boundary of the Florida East Coast Railway right-of-way for a distance of 1889.61 feet to a point of intersection with the North line of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 2; thence run North 89°22′35″ West along the said line of the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of said Section 2 for a distance of 2.86 feet to a point; thence run South 21°31′25″ West along the Easterly boundary of the Seaboard Airline Railroad right-of-way for a distance of 836.46 feet to a point of curvature; thence run Southerly along the arc of a curve to the left having a radius of 1860.08 feet and a central angle of 20°03′30″ for a distance of 651.18 feet to a point of tangency; thence run South 1°27′55″ West along said Easterly boundary of the Seaboard Airline Railroad for a distance of 651.27 feet to a point on the Northerly bank of the Tamiami Canal; thence run North 66°35′44″ East along said Northerly bank of the Tamiami Canal for a distance of 441.44 feet to the Point of Beginning. (Ord. No. 63-6, § 1, 3-5-63) Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said county franchise, and any extensions thereof, in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. (Ord. No. 63-6, § 2, 3-5-63) ORD. NO. 63-17. SOUTH MIAMI (Adopted May 14, 1963) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of South Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of said municipality is hereby amended, to provide for the annexation to the City of South Miami and the inclusion within the official boundaries of said municipality of all the lands described in the schedule attached to and made a part hereof by reference. Schedule of lands annexed to City of South Miami PARCEL NO. 1 Beginning at a point in the centerline of SW 57th Avenue (Red Road), said point being the SE corner of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence run Westerly along the South line of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36 to the SW corner of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36; thence run Northerly along the West line of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36 to the intersection with the North line of the South 528 feet of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36, and centerline of SW 84th Terrace, thence run Easterly along the North line of the South 528 feet of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36, and centerline of SW 84th Terrace; to the intersection with the East line of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36, and the centerline of SW 57th Avenue (Red Road), thence run Southerly along the East line of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36, and the centerline of SW 57th Avenue (Red Road), to the SE corner of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36, and the Point of Beginning. PARCEL NO. 2 Beginning at a point at the intersection of the centerline of SW 62 Avenue at the centerline of SW 82 Street, said point being the NW corner of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence running Easterly along the centerline of SW 82 Street, to the centerline of SW 60 Avenue, said point being the NE corner of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, a distance of 660 feet, more or less; thence running Southerly along the centerline of SW 60 Avenue to the SE corner of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36, a distance of 660 feet, more or less; thence running Westerly along the South line of the NW¼ of the SE¼ to the centerline of SW 62 Avenue, said point being the NW corner of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 36, a distance of 660 feet, more or less; thence running Northerly along the centerline of SW 62 Avenue a distance of 660 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning. PARCEL NO. 3 Beginning at the NW corner of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence in a Northerly direction along the centerline of SW 67 Avenue (Ludlam Road) 165 feet, more or less, to the NW corner of the S½ of the S½ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence in an Easterly direction along the North line of the S½ of the S½ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of said Section 36, a distance of 660 feet, more or less, to the NE corner of the S½ of the S½ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of said Section 36, said point also being the Northwest Corner of Lot No. 1, Block 2, of DAVIS MANOR; thence in a Southerly direction along the rear lot line of Lots One and Two, Block Two, of said DAVIS MANOR, 165 feet, more or less, to the NE corner of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence in a Westerly direction along the North line of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of Section 36, a distance of 660 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning. PARCEL NO. 4 Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of the SW 80 Street (Davis Drive) and the centerline of SW 67 Avenue (Ludlam Road); thence in a Northerly direction along the centerline of said SW 67 Avenue to the intersection with the centerline of SW 79 Street, a distance of 250.70 feet, more or less; thence running Easterly along the centerline of Southwest 79 Street to its intersection with the centerline of SW 66 Avenue, a distance of 400 feet, more or less; thence Southerly along the centerline of SW 66 Avenue to the centerline of SW 80 Street (Davis Drive), being also the South line of the NW¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, a distance of 251.65 feet, more or less; thence in a Westerly direction along the centerline of SW 80 Street (Davis Drive) also the South line of the NW¼ of Section 36, to the centerline of SW 67 Avenue (Ludlam) to the point of beginning. PARCEL NO. 5 Beginning at the NW Corner of the S½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of the NE¼ of Section 35, Twp. 54S, Rge. 40 E Dade County, Florida; thence run easterly along the north line of said S½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of the NE¼ to the NW Corner of "Ludlam Groves" according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 51 at Page 48 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run southerly along the west line of Ludlam Groves to a point on the south line of the NE¼ of said Section 35 and the center line of S.W. 80 St. (Davis Drive); thence run westerly along the south line of said NE¼, being the center line of S.W. 80 St. (Davis Drive) to the SW corner of the SE¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 35; thence run northerly along the west line of the SE¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 35 to the NW Corner of the S½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 35 and the point of beginning. Editor's note— Parcel No. 6 was not approved for annexation and was therefore not incorporated as a part of Ord. No. 63-17. PARCEL NO. 7 Beginning at the SW corner of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of Section 26, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, Dade County, Florida, also being the intersection of the center line of SW 68th Street and the westerly boundary line of Nelson Homesites recorded in Plat Book 39 at Page 57 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run northerly along the Westerly boundary of Nelson Homesites, also being the west line of the aforementioned NE¼ of the SE¼ to the NW corner of said NE¼ of SE¼, being the point of intersection of the center line of SW 69th Avenue and SW 64th Street (Hardee Drive); thence run westerly along the north line of the SE¼ of said Section 26, also being the center line of SW 64th Street, (Hardee Drive) to a point on the easterly R/W line of the Florida East Coast Railway Co., Miami Belt Line; thence run northerly along the east boundary line of said Miami Belt Line to a point of intersection with the north line of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 26, also being a point on the center line of SW 60th Street; thence run easterly along the north line of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 26 and the center line of SW 60th Street to the intersection of the center lines of SW 60th Street and SW 69th Avenue, also being the NW corner of the SE¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 26; thence run southerly along the west line of said SE¼ of the NE¼ to the SW corner of the N½ of the SE¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 26; thence run easterly along the south line of the North½ of the SE¼ of NE¼ of said Section 26 to the SE corner of the N½ of SE¼ of NE¼ of said Section 26, said point being on the center line of SW 67th Avenue (Ludlam Road); thence run southerly along the center line of SW 67th Avenue, (Ludlam Road) also being the east line of the NE¼ and the east line of the SE¼ of said Section 26, to the SE corner of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 26; thence run westerly along the south line of the NE¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 26 to the SW corner thereof and the Point of Beginning. PARCEL NO. 8 Beginning at the SW corner of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 24, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence in a Northerly direction along the centerline of SW 67 Avenue (Ludlam Road) to the NW corner of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 24, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence in an Easterly direction to the NE corner of the W½ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 24, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence in a Southerly direction to the SE corner of the W½ of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 24, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; thence in a Westerly direction 330 feet, more or less, to the centerline of SW 67 Avenue (Ludlam Road) also the SW corner of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 24, Township 54 South, Range 40 East; to the Point of Beginning. PARCEL NO. 9 Beginning at the NW Corner of the SW¼ of Section 24, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, Dade County, Florida, being the intersection of the center line of S.W. 67 Avenue (Ludlam Road) and S.W. 48 Street (Blue Road); thence run Easterly, along the North line of the SW¼ of said Section 24, and the center line of S.W. 48 Street (Blue Road) to the NE Corner of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 24; thence run Southerly, along the East line of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 24, to the SE Corner of the N½ of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 24; thence run Westerly along the South line of the N½ of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 24 to the SW Corner of the N½ of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 24 being a point on the center line of S.W. 67 Avenue (Ludlam Road); thence run Northerly, along the West line of the SW¼ of said Section 24 and the center line of S.W. 67 Avenue to the NW Corner of the SW¼ of said Section 24 and the Point of Beginning. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power and Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said county franchise, and any extensions thereof, in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. ORD. NO. 63-43. HOMESTEAD (Adopted October 8, 1963) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, to provide for the annexation to the City of Homestead and the inclusion within the official boundaries of such municipality of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: Begin at the NE corner of the S½ of the S½ of the NE¼ of the NW¼, Section 12, Township 57 South, Range 38 East; thence run Westerly to the NW corner of the S½ of the S½ of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of said Section 12-57-38; thence run Southerly to the West¼ corner of Section 12-57-38; thence continue Southerly to the SW corner of Section 12-57-38; thence continue Southerly to the West¼ corner of Section 13-57-38; thence continue Southerly to the SW corner of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13, Township 57 South, Range 38 East; thence run Easterly to the SE corner of the W½ of the West½ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Northerly to the NE corner of the W½ of the W½ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Easterly to the NE corner of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Southerly to the SW corner of the NE¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Easterly to the SE corner of the W½ of the NE¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Northerly to the NE corner of the W½ of the NE½ of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Easterly to the SE corner of the W½ of the NW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence Northerly to the NE corner of the W½ of the NW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence continue Northerly to the SW corner of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of Section 12-57-38; thence run Easterly to the SE corner of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of Section 12-57-38; thence run Northerly to the center of Section 12-57-38; thence run Westerly to the SE corner of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of Section 12-57-38; thence run Northerly to the NE corner of the SW¼ of the NW¼ of Section 12-57-38; thence run Easterly to the SE corner of the NE¼ of the NW¼ of Section 12-57-38; thence run Northerly to the NE corner of the S½ of the S½ of the NE¼ of the NW¼ of Section 12-57-38 to the Point of Beginning. Begin at the SW corner of Section 13-57-38; thence run Easterly to the SE corner of the W½ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Northerly to the NE corner of the W½ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Westerly to the NW corner of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Southerly to the Point of Beginning. Begin at the SW corner of the E½ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Easterly to the SE corner of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Northerly to the NE corner of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Westerly to the NW corner of the E½ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 13-57-38; thence run Southerly to the Point of Beginning. Begin at the NE corner of Lot 4 of WAREHOUSE SUBDIVISION, recorded in Plat Book 32, Page 49, Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run Westerly to the NW corner of said Lot 4; thence Southerly to the SW corner of Lot 9 of said WAREHOUSE SUBDIVISION; thence Easterly to the SE corner of said Lot 9, thence Northerly to the Point of Beginning. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said County franchise, and any extensions thereof, in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. ORD. NO. 63-56. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted December 3, 1963) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended, to provide for the annexation to the City of North Miami and the inclusion within the official boundaries of such municipality of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: That certain real property now in the area which is bounded on the South by the center line of N.W. 119th Street, on the North and West by the present city limit's line of the City of North Miami and on the East by the Westerly boundary of U. S. Interstate Highway No. 95, also known as the North-South Expressway, and more particularly described as containing Tract 1 and Tract 23 and Block 22, less Tract A of NORTH SHORE HEIGHTS, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Plat Book 40, Page 62 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, and Lots 1—10, inclusive, and Lots 27—40, inclusive, Block 4, and Lots 1—15, inclusive, and Lots 28—32, inclusive, Block 9, ALHAMBRA HEIGHTS, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Plat Book 17, Page 54 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, together with the area from the center line of N.W. 119th Street adjacent to said property above described and all streets, alleyways and easements included within the limits of the above described property. Section 2. This ordinance is enacted and the annexation of the lands herein described is accomplished upon the express condition and reservation that the same shall be subject to the provisions of County Ordinance No. 60-16 granting an electric franchise to the Florida Power & Light Company, and that Dade County shall continue to receive and collect all franchise revenues derived from the lands hereinabove described during the full term of said County franchise, and any extensions thereof, in the same manner as though such annexed lands remained a part of the unincorporated area of the County. ORD. NO. 64-48. SOUTH MIAMI (Adopted October 6, 1964) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of South Miami are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of South Miami of the following described lands situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to-wit: The East 80 feet of Tract 4, BILTMORE HEIGHTS REVISED, recorded in Plat Book 39 at Page 65 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; also formerly known as Lots 23, 24, 25, and the East 5 feet of Lot 22 in Block 4 of BILTMORE HEIGHTS, recorded in Plat Book 21 at Page 34 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. ORD. NO. 65-5. HIALEAH (Adopted January 11, 1965) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following described property: The West½ of the West½ of Section 30, Township 52 South, Range 41 East, LESS the following described parcel of land: COMMENCE at the Northwest corner of Section 30, Township 52 South, Range 41 East; thence run North 86 degrees 59 minutes 59 seconds East along the North line of the Northwest¼ of said Section 30 for a distance of 100.01 feet to the Point of Intersection with a line that is 100.00 feet East of and parallel to the West line of the Northwest¼ of said Section 30, said point also being the Point of Beginning of the following described parcel; thence continue North 86 degrees 59 minutes 59 seconds East along the North line of the Northwest¼ of said Section 30 for a distance of 603.22 feet; thence run South 49 degrees 26 minutes 41 seconds West for a distance of 703.48 feet to a point that is 140.00 feet East of, as measured at right angles to, the West line of the Northwest¼ of said Section 30; thence run South 13 degrees 21 minutes 53 seconds West for a distance of 136.01 feet to the Point of Intersection with a line that is 100.00 feet East of and parallel to the West line of the Northwest¼ of said Section 30; thence run North 3 degrees 44 minutes 17 seconds West along the line that is 100.00 feet East of and parallel to the West line of the Northwest¼ of said Section 30 for a distance of 559.34 feet to the Point of Beginning; ALSO LESS the North 559.34 feet of the West 100 feet of the Northwest¼ of Section 30, Township 52 South, Range 41 East, ALSO, subject to the West 100 feet of said described tract for public road purposes, according to the Plat thereof, as recorded in Plat Book 70 at Page 5 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. As set forth in Resolution No. 2487 passed and adopted on September 15, 1964, by the Council of the City of Hialeah, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 65-14. NORTH MIAMI BEACH (Adopted March 16, 1965) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami Beach, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami Beach of the following described property: The South 75′ of the East 175′ of the North 157′ of the East½ of the Southeast¼ of the Southeast¼ of the Southeast¼ less the East 25′ Section 7, Township 52 South, Range 42 East; known and designated as 16750 N.E. 10th Avenue, Miami, Florida, said property lying and being in Dade County, Florida. As set forth in Resolution No. 116 passed and adopted on November 17, 1964, by the Council of the City of North Miami Beach, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 63-35. HOMESTEAD (Adopted May 4, 1965) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The North¾ of the West½ of the NW¼ of the NE¼, Section 12, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, containing 15 acres, more or less. As set forth in Resolution No. 64-10-1, passed and adopted on October 4, 1964, by the council of the City of Homestead, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 65-36. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted May 4, 1965) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: LOT 2, BLOCK 1, Subdivision of the South½ of the North½ of the Southwest¼ of the Southeast¼ and the North½ of the South½ of the Southwest¼ of the Southeast¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, according to the Plat thereof as recorded in Plat Book 1, Page 93 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. As set forth in Resolution No. 1078, passed and adopted on December 22, 1964, by the council of the City of North Miami, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 66-54. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted October 18, 1966) as amended by ORD. NO. 67-36. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted May 16, 1967) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: PARCEL A SLS Shopping Center, Plat Book 80, Page 25, a subdivision of Dade County, Florida, as per plat thereof recorded in the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, AND PARCEL B The E½ of the S½ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of Section 25, Township 52 South, Range 41 East, lying and being situated in Dade County, Florida. As set forth in Resolution No. 1168, passed and adopted March 25, 1966, by the Council of the City of North Miami, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 66-55. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted October 18, 1966) as amended by ORD. NO. 67-37. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted May 16, 1967) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: The West one-half of the South one-half of the Southeast¼ of the Southeast¼ of the Southeast¼ of Section 25, Township 52 South, Range 41 East lying and being situated in Dade County, Florida. As set forth in Resolution No. 1169, passed and adopted on March 25, 1966, by the Council of the City of North Miami, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 67-68. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted September 19, 1967) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: Begin at the SW corner of the North½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida; thence run East along the South line of the North½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29 for 169.53 feet; thence run N 29-21-15 E for 381.19 feet to the South line of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29; thence run East along the South line of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29 to the center line of Little Arch Creek; thence run Southwesterly along the center line of Little Arch Creek to the South line of the North½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29; thence run East along the South line of the North½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29 to the Northwest corner of Tract 1 of the Amended Plat of a Portion of Subdivision of a Portion of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 41 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run Southerly along the West line of said Tract 1, to the Southwest corner of said Tract 1 being on the South line of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29; thence run Westerly along the South line of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29 to the Southwest corner of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29; thence run Northerly along the West line of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29 to the Point of Beginning. AND Beginning at the SW corner of the N½ of the N½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, thence run due East along the South line of the North½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of the said Section 29 for a distance of 169.53 feet, thence run North 29°21′15″ East for a distance 381.19 feet to the South line of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, thence run West 354.53 feet to the NW corner of the N½ of the N½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, thence South 332.25 feet to the place of beginning. The above described real estate being also referred to as Parcel No. 2, adjacent to and East of NE 14th Avenue, and North of NE 122nd Street. As set forth in Resolution No. 1176, passed and adopted on April 26, 1966, and Resolution No. 1210, passed and adopted on October 11, 1966, by the Council of the City of North Miami, which Resolutions are made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 67-86. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted November 21, 1967) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: The West½ of the SE¼ of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of Section 20, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, LESS the North 25 feet and less all of the East 25 feet except the South 330 feet, all lying and being in Dade County, Florida; As set forth in Resolution No. 1177 passed and adopted on April 26, 1966, by the Council of the City of North Miami, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 67-90. VIRGINIA GARDENS (Adopted November 21, 1967 as Amended by Ord. No. 68-26, Adopted May 7, 1968) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Village of Virginia Gardens, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the Village of Virginia Gardens of the following described property: That part of Tract 21 in Section 25, Township 53 South, Range 40 East of FLORIDA FRUIT LANDS COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION NO. 1, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 2 at Page 17 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, that lies South of the North line of the South 25 feet of the North½ of said Tract 21 and lies North of the North Right-of-Way line of N.W. 36th Street as said Right-of-Way line is shown on the Right-of-Way Map for the N.W. 36th Street Extension recorded in Plat Book 75 at Page 80 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. As set forth in Resolution No. 168 passed and adopted on February 9, 1966, by the Council of the Village of Virginia Gardens, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 69-4. HIALEAH (Adopted January 7, 1969) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following described lands, situate, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, to wit: Sections 27, 28 and 34, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, Public Records of Dade County, Florida. As set forth in Resolution No. 2633, passed and adopted on March 14, 1966, by the Council of the City of Hialeah, Florida, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 69-23. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted April 1, 1969) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: That part of Tract 1 of the plat recorded in Plat Book 41 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, described as follows: Commence at the Southeast corner of said Tract 1; thence run North along the East line of said Tract 1 for 30 feet; thence run West 300 feet; thence run North 250 feet to the Point of Beginning; thence run East 300 feet; thence run North to the South line of the North½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East; thence run West along the South line of the North½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 29 for 300 feet; thence run South to the Point of Beginning; in accordance with the terms of Resolution 1274 passed and adopted on September 26, 1967, by the City Council of the City of North Miami, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference, except for that portion of Resolution 1274 containing the legal description of the land to be annexed, which legal description has been modified by the legal description as hereinabove set out in order for the legal description herein to conform with the standard form of legal descriptions used in Dade County, and, further, the modified legal description hereinabove set out changes only the form of the legal description contained in Resolution 1274 and does not in any way describe a different portion of land intended to be described by the City Council of the City of North Miami in Resolution 1274. ORD. NO. 69-45. NORTH MIAMI BEACH (Adopted July 23, 1969) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami Beach, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of North Miami Beach of the following described property: The North 120 feet of the South 290 feet of the West 110 feet of the West½ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of Section 7, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, AND The North1/3 of the West½ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of the SE¼ of Section 7, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida; as set forth in Resolution Nos. R-69-24 and R-69-25, passed and adopted on February 18, 1969, by the Council of the City of North Miami Beach, which Resolutions are made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 69-85. HOMESTEAD (Adopted November 26, 1969) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The S½ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of Section 7, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, containing 4.72 acres, more or less; as set forth in Resolution No. 69-2-4, passed and adopted on February 17, 1969, by the Council of the City of Homestead, which Resolution is made a part hereof. ORD. NO. 70-1. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted January 7, 1970) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: The West 440 feet and the South 30 feet less the West 440 feet of Tract 1 of a portion of a subdivision of the South½ of the North½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ and the North½ of the South½ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of Section 29, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 41 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, which contains approximately 3.563 acres, as set forth in Resolution No. 1345 passed and adopted on June 24, 1969, by the Council of the City of North Miami, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 70-56. HOMESTEAD (Adopted July 14, 1970) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: SE¼ of NE¼ of SE¼, Section 14, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 1345 passed and adopted on March 16, 1970, by the Council of the City of Homestead, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 70-61. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted July 24, 1970) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the property described on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof, as set forth in Resolution No. 1412 passed and adopted on June 23, 1970, by the City Council of the City of North Miami, which resolution is made a part hereof as Exhibit B, and Dade County relies upon and accepts all the commitments made therein to it by the City of North Miami. Section 2. The City of North Miami, in requesting the annexation of the above described lands, has expressly agreed that the city will, within 90 days, proceed to sell its entire $12,000,000 General Obligation Bond Issue and pay to the Inter-American Center Authority the net proceeds thereof, after deduction of discount and expenses of sale, said proceeds to be immediately utilized toward the satisfaction of the existing bonded indebtedness of the Inter-American Center Authority. Section 3. The Board of County Commissioners of Dade County, Florida, in approving this annexation by passing and adopting this ordinance, has specifically relief upon the above representations and agreement for payment of the net proceeds of North Miami's $12,000,000 General Obligation Bond Issue to the Inter-American Center Authority to be utilized for the payment of said bonded indebtedness of the Inter-American Center Authority. This ordinance shall be deemed to be invalid, null and void if said net proceeds are not so paid over to the Inter-American Center Authority within 90 days from the effective date of this ordinance. Section 4. It is the legislative intention of the Board of County Commissioners of Dade County, Florida, in adopting this ordinance, that the lands which are the subject matter of this annexation ordinance which are now in public ownership shall be used for public purposes only. If any portion of the said lands shall cease to be owned and controlled by the Inter-American Center Authority or cease to be used for other public purposes as defined by law, said portion of land shall revert to an unincorporated status, and this ordinance shall be null and void, insofar as it pertains to that portion of land, from the date said portion of land ceases to be used for public purposes. This section shall not apply to any portion of publicly owned land which is the subject matter of this annexation ordinance, in the event it is exchanged for any privately owned land included in this annexation ordinance. Section 5. The provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to Sections 2, 3 and 4, are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. This Board hereby declares that it would not have passed this ordinance without enactment of Sections 2, 3 and 4 hereof. If any of the provisions are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null, void and of no force or effect. EXHIBIT A. INTERAMA PROPERTY ANNEXATION BY THE CITY OF NORTH MIAMI, LEGAL DESCRIPTION: A parcel of land situated in Dade County, Florida, being a portion of Sections 14, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 23, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: Begin at a point where the Northerly Right-of-Way line of State Road No. 826 (Sunny Isles Boulevard), extended East, intersects the centerline of the Intracoastal Waterway (PB 37 Pg. 6); thence run Southerly, along the centerline of said Intracoastal Waterway to the intersection with the Easterly extension of the South line of said Section 22; thence run Westerly, along the said South line of Section 22, to the Southwest corner of said Section 22; thence run Westerly, along the South line of said Section 21, to the Southwest corner of East½ of the SE¼ of Section 21; thence run Northerly, along the West line of said East½ of the SE¼ of Section 21, to the Southeast corner of Tract 25 of "Amended Plat of R. E. McDonald's Subdivision," as recorded in Plat Book 2 at Page 22 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run Westerly, along the South line of Tracts 25, 26 and 27 of the last described plat, to the Southwest corner of Tract 27; thence run Northeasterly, along the Westerly line of said Tract 27, to the Southwest corner of Tract 22 of the last described plat; thence run Northerly, along the West line of Tract 22, of last described plat, to the Northwest corner of the South½ of said Tract 22; thence run Easterly along the North line of the South½ of said Tract 22, to the Southwest corner of the East½ of the North½ of said Tract 22; thence run Northerly, along the West line of the East½ of the North½ of said Tract 22, to the Northwest corner of the East½ of the North½ of Tract 22; thence run Easterly, along the North line of said Tract 22, for a distance of 27.12 feet; thence run Northeasterly, along a line parallel to the centerline of Federal Highway State Road No. 4 (PB 34 Pg. 50), presently known as U. S. Highway No. 1, for a distance of 482.26 feet to a point; thence run Westerly, along a line parallel to the South lines of Tracts 11 and 12 of said "Amended Plat of R. E. McDonald's Subdivision" (PB 2 Pg. 22), for a distance of 891.2 feet, more or less, to the intersection with the Easterly Right-of-Way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1; thence run Northeasterly along the Easterly Right-of-Way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1, to the South line of the NW¼ of said Section 21; thence run Easterly, along the South line of the NW¼ of Section 21, to the enter of said Section 21; thence run Northerly, along the East line of the NW¼ of said Section 21, and along the West line of Tracts 7, 6 and 3 of said "Amended Plat of R. E. McDonald's Subdivision" (PB 2 Pg. 22) to the Southwest corner of Tract 2, of same plat; thence run Westerly along the South line of the North½ of the North½ of the NW¼ of said Section 21, to a point of intersection with the Westerly Right-of-Way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1; thence run Northeasterly, along the Westerly Right-of-Way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1, to the Southeast corner of Lot 3, Block 2 of "Biscayne Boulevard Subdivision One," as recorded in Plat Book 40 at Page 4 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run Westerly, along the South line of said Lot 3, to the intersection with the Easterly Right-of-Way line of Florida East Coast Railway; thence run Northeasterly, along the Easterly Right-of-Way line of said Florida East Coast Railway, to the point of intersection with the Westerly extension of the North line of Lot 2, Block 2 of last described plat; thence run Easterly, along the Westerly extension of the North line of said Lot 2 and along the North line of said Lot 2, to the Southeast corner of Lot 1, Block 2, of same plat; thence run Northeasterly, along the Westerly Right-of-Way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1, to the Southeast corner of Lot 2, Block 1 of said "Biscayne Boulevard Subdivision One" (PB 40 Pg. 4); thence run Westerly, along the South line of said Lot 2 and the Westerly extension thereof, to a point of intersection with the Easterly Right-of-Way line of said Florida East Coast Railway; thence run Northeasterly, along said Easterly Right-of-Way line, to the point of intersection with the Westerly extension of the North line of Lot 3, Block 1 of said "Biscayne Boulevard Subdivision One" (PB 40 Pg. 4); thence run Easterly, along the Westerly extension of the North line of said Lot 3 and along the North line of said Lot 3, to the Northeast corner of said Lot 3; thence run Northeasterly, along the Westerly Right-of-Way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1, to the Southeast corner of Lot 6, Block 1 of same plat; thence run Westerly, along the South line of said Lot 6 and the Westerly extension thereof, to the point of intersection with Easterly Right-of-Way line of the Florida East Coast Railway; thence run Northeasterly, along the said Easterly Right-of-Way line of the Florida East Coast Railway to the point of intersection with the West line of the SE¼ of Section 16, Township 52 South, Range 42 East; thence run Southerly, along the West line of the SE¼ of said Section 16 to the Southwest corner of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 16; thence run Easterly, along the South line of the NW¼ of the NW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 16 to the Southeast corner of same; thence run Northerly, along the East line of the NW¼, of the NW¼, of the SE¼ of said Section 16, and along the East line of the South½ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 16, to the Northeast corner of the South½ of the SW¼ of the SW¼, of the NE¼ of said Section 16; thence run Westerly along the North line of the South½, of the SW¼, of the SW¼, of the NE¼ of said Section 16 and the Westerly extension thereof, to the point of intersection with the Westerly Right-of-Way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1; thence run Northeasterly, along said Westerly Right-of-Way line of U. S. Highway No. 1, to a point of intersection with the North line of the South½ of the West½ of the NE¼ of Section 16, Township 52 South, Range 42 East; thence run Easterly, along said North line of the South½ of the West½ of the NE¼ of Section 16, to the point of intersection with the Northerly Right-of-Way line of State Road No. 826 (Sunny Isles Boulevard); thence run Easterly along the Northerly Right-of-Way line of State Road No. 826 (Sunny Isles Boulevard), to the intersection with the centerline of the Intracoastal Waterway, being the point of beginning. LESS the following described parcels of land: PARCEL A Commence at the NE corner of the SW¼ of said Section 15, Township 52 South of Range 42 East; thence run West along the North line of said SW¼, a distance of 400 feet for a point of beginning; thence from said point of beginning run South parallel with the East boundary line of said SW¼ to the Oleta River; thence Southeasterly, easterly and northeasterly meandering on the northerly side of said river to a point on the northwesterly bank of said river 600 feet north of the south boundary line of the NE¼ of said Section 15; thence west parallel with the south boundary lines of the NE¼ and the NW¼ of the said section and a distance of 600 feet therefrom for a distance of 1281 feet more or less to a point 600 feet north of point of beginning; thence south parallel with the East boundary line of the NW¼ of said Section a distance of 600 feet to the point of beginning. PARCEL B For a point of beginning commence at a point 600 feet north of the south boundary line of the NW¼ of said Section 15, and a distance of 400 feet West of the east boundary line of said NW¼; thence north parallel with the east boundary line of the said NW¼ to the right-of-way of the public highway running east and west through said Section 15; thence run east along said right-of-way a distance of 100 feet more or less to a point on the south line of said highway right-of-way 300 feet west of the east boundary line of said NW¼; thence south to a point 600 feet north of the south boundary line of the NW¼ of said Section 15, and 300 feet from the east boundary line of said NW¼; thence 100 feet west to a place of beginning, the same being a strip of land extending from the west 100 feet of Parcel A to the public highway as is now located. PARCEL C Commence at the Southwest corner of the N½ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 16, said corner being 666.59 feet East and 330.385 feet South of the Northwest corner of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 16, thence Northerly along the West line of the N½ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 16, a distance of 40 feet, thence East parallel with the South line of the N½ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 16, a distance of 40 feet to the point of beginning, said point of beginning being marked by an iron pipe, thence westerly a distance of 19.8 feet, more or less to the Easterly line "of right-of-way to be acquired" of State Road No. 4 as shown on the plat of "State Road Department Right-of-way Plans, Road No. 4, Dade County, Florida" recorded in Plat Book 34 at Page 51 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, thence southwesterly along the Easterly line of said "Right-of-way" to a point of intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 160 feet Southerly at right angles to the South line of the N½ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 16; thence Easterly 375 feet along said line to a point, thence Northerly at right angles to the last mentioned line 200 feet to a point; thence Westerly along a line parallel to and 40 feet Northerly at right angles from the South line of said N½ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section 16, to the point of beginning. PARCEL D For a point of beginning commence at a point on the easterly line of said State Road No. 4 as shown on the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 34, Page 51 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, where the Southerly line of State Road No. 270 intersects said State Road No. 4, which southerly line is the southerly line of that certain parcel of land conveyed by Sunny Isles Holding Company et al. to the State Road Department, of the State of Florida, by warranty deed dated July 1941, and recorded in Deed Book 2182, page 508 et seq. of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, which parcel of land is shown on a photostatic copy of Right-of-way map of Project 5155, State Road No. 270 revised April 11, 1941, attached to and by reference made a part of said deed; from said point of beginning, which point is marked by an iron pipe set in concrete, run South 83° 21′ 40″ East along the southerly Right-of-way line of said State Road No. 270 according to said revised Right-of-way map, a distance of 27.01 feet to the point of curve of a circular curve to the left as shown on said revised Right-of-way map, which curve has a radius of 6466.26 feet; run thence along said curve to the left and said southerly Right-of-way line through a central angle of 00° 39′ 43″ an arc distance of 74.71 feet to a point, which point is marked by an iron pipe set in concrete; run thence South 4° 09′ East a distance of 100 feet to a point, which point is marked by an iron pipe set in concrete; run thence north 83° 36′ 15.1″ West a distance of 101.72 feet to a point 100 feet South 4° 09′ East of the point of beginning; continue along the last mentioned course a distance of 33.31 feet, more or less, to a point on the easterly right-of-way line of said State Road No. 4, which point is marked by an iron pipe set in concrete; run thence northeasterly along the easterly right-of-way of said State Road No. 4 to the point or place of beginning. ORD. NO. 70-81. NORTH MIAMI BEACH (Adopted October 27, 1970) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami Beach, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami Beach of the following described property: Commence at the SE corner of the NE¼ of Section 9, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida; thence run Westerly along the South line of the NE¼ of said Section 9 for a distance of 284.98 feet to a point of intersection thereof with the Southwesterly right-of-way line of the Oleta River, said point being the point of beginning of the parcel of land herein described; thence continue in a Westerly direction along the South line of the NE¼ of said Section 9 for a distance of 231.91 feet to a point on the most easterly right-of-way line of U. S. Highway No. 1, the same being State Road No. 5, formerly known as State Road No. 4, as the same is recorded in Plat Book 34 at Pages 49 through 54 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run Northeasterly along the most Easterly right-of-way line of said U. S. Highway No. 1, the same being State Road No. 5 for a distance of 161.80 feet to a point of intersection thereof with the Southwesterly right-of-way line of the Oleta River; thence run Southeasterly along the Southwesterly right-of-way line of the Oleta River for a distance of 234.01 feet to the point of beginning, as set forth in Resolution No. R70-3, as amended, passed and adopted on January 6, 1970, by the Council of the City of North Miami Beach, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORD. NO. 71-7. HOMESTEAD (Adopted January 6, 1971) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: The South½ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 8, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, Dade County, Florida; AND the South½ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of the SW¼ of said Section 8; AND the West½ of Section 17, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, as set forth in Resolution No. 70-05-16, passed and adopted on May 4, 1970 by the Council of the City of Homestead, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. The City of Homestead, in requesting the annexation of the above described land, has expressly agreed that said city will not directly or indirectly or by any means whatsoever, authorize, permit or cause to be effected any zoning change to the below described portion of the above described property for a period of one year from the effective date of this ordinance: That portion of the West½ of Section 17, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, Dade County, Florida, that lies South and East of the South and East right-of-way lines of Central and Southern Florida Flood Control District Canal C-103S in said Section 17. Section 3. The Board of County Commissioners, in approving this annexation by passing and adopting this ordinance, has specifically relied on the above representation that no zoning changes to any of the above described property would be effected [affected] for a period of one year from the effective date of this ordinance. This ordinance shall be deemed to be invalid, null and void if any zoning changes to the aforesaid property shall be made by said city, without the express consent of this Board within the said time period. Section 4. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, and Ordinance Nos. 70-84, as amended, and 70-85 as amended, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing with in the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 5. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. ORD. NO. 71-26. HOMESTEAD (Adopted March 16, 1971) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: N½ of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of the SW¼, Section 7, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, as set forth in Resolution No. 70-05-15, passed and adopted on May 4, 1970, by the Council of the City of Homestead, which Resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, and Ordinance Nos. 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. ORD. NO. 71-27. HOMESTEAD (Adopted March 16, 1971) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: SW¼ of the NW¼ of NE¼ of SW¼, Sec. 7, Township 57S, Range 39E, Dade County, Florida, consisting of 2.5 acres more or less, including all improvements thereon, as set forth in Resolution No. 70-08-28, passed and adopted on August 17, 1970, by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, and Ordinance Nos. 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. ORD. NO. 73-48. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted September 6, 1972) Section 1. Subject to the remaining provisions of this ordinance, the municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: That part of the SW¼ of Section 23, Township 52 South, Range 41 East, Dade County, Florida, lying south of the south right-of-way line of Opa Locka Boulevard, as set forth in Resolution No. 1243, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of North Miami, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. It is expressly made a condition precedent to the effectiveness of this ordinance that the County shall receive a resolution of the City of North Miami certifying that the city intends to proceed with the site improvements, namely, those relating to the filling and contouring as specified in the plan originally submitted by the city. Section 3. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended) this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 73-74. HIALEAH GARDENS (Adopted September 4, 1973) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Hialeah Gardens, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the Town of Hialeah Gardens of the following described property: The west ½ of Tract 17, and all of Tracts 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, in Section 33, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, according to the Plat of Florida Fruitlands Company recorded in Plat Book 2, Page 17 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 314, passed and adopted by the Council of the Town of Hialeah Gardens on October 5, 1972, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. ORD. NO. 74-74. HOMESTEAD (Adopted September 16, 1974) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The west 449 feet of Tract 13, Block 1, Section 17-57-39, Miami Land and Development Company Subdivision, Plat Book 5, page 10, Public Records of Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 73-10-42, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 74-75. HOMESTEAD (Adopted September 16, 1974) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The SW¼ of the NW¼ of the SW¼, Section 8, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, Public Records of Dade County, Florida, 10 acres, more or less, as set forth in Resolution No. 74-02-8, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 74-76. HOMESTEAD (Adopted September 16, 1974) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: All of the following blocks, lying within the plat of Miami Land and Development Company Subdivision as recorded in Plat Book 5, page 10 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida: Block 1 Section 19, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 1 Section 20, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 2 Section 21, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 4 Section 21, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 3 Section 22, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 4 Section 22, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 1 Section 27, Township 57 South Range 39 East AND The SW¼ of Section 23, Township 57 South Range 39 East The NW¼ of Section 26, Township 57 South Range 30 East AND All of Tracts 1 thru 8 and 13 thru 16 both inclusive according to the revised plat of Florida City Park as recorded in Plat Book 33, at page 48 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. AND Lots 6 and 7 Block 1 and Lots 29 and 30 Block 5 according to the plat of Florida City Park as recorded in Plat Book 16, at page 53 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. AND A portion of the following blocks, lying within the plat of Miami Land and Development Company Subdivision as recorded in Plat Book 5, at page 10 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida: Block 3 Section 16, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 4 Section 16, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 4 Section 17, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 2 Section 20, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 3 Section 20, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 4 Section 20, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 4 Section 19, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 1 Section 29, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 2 Section 29, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 1 Section 21, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 3 Section 21, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 1 Section 28, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 2 Section 28, Township 57 South Range 39 East Block 2 Section 27, Township 57 South Range 39 East the same being more particularly described as follows: Begin at the northwest corner of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 19, thence N 88°35′47″ E (all bearings and distances contained herein are derived from Dade County Public Works Department Survey of Township 57 South, Range 39 East) a distance of 2715.84 feet along the north line of said northeast one-quarter to the northwest corner of the northwest one-quarter of said Section 20, thence N 88°26′31″ E a distance of 2720.39 feet along the north line of said northwest one-quarter to the southeast corner of the southwest one-quarter of said Section 17; thence N 0°22′40″ W a distance of 998.09 feet along the east line of said southwest one-quarter to an intersection with the westerly prolongation of the north line of Lots 15 thru 20 inclusive Block 4 of said Section 17; thence N 89°41′41″ E a distance of 1357.31 feet along the north line of said Lots 15 thru 20 inclusive to the northeast corner of said Lot 20; thence N 0°27′45″ W a distance of 333.11 feet along the west line of Lot 27, Block 4 to the northwest corner thereof; thence N 89°40′39″ E a distance of 1356.82 feet along the north line of said Lot 27 and a prolongation thereof, to the east line of the southeast one-quarter of said Section 17; thence N 89°37′30″ E along the prolongation of the north line of Lot 14 and Lot 27, Block 4 of said subdivision of said Section 16, a distance of 2667.38 feet to an intersection with the east line of the southwest one-quarter of said Section 16; thence N 89°34′01″ E along the westerly prolongation of and the north line thereof of Lot 14, Block 4 of said subdivision of said Section 16 a distance of 1334.32 feet to the northeast corner thereof; thence S 0°22′26″ E along the east line of said Lot 14 and Lot 20, Block 4 and a prolongation thereof a distance of 1332.75 feet to a point on the north line of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 21; thence N 89°31′46″ E along the north line of said northeast one-quarter of said Section 21 a distance of 444.41 feet to the northerly prolongation of the east line of Lot 5 Block 1 of said subdivision of said Section 21; thence S 0°29′02″ E along the east line of said Lot 5 a distance of 1002.10 feet to the southeast corner thereof; thence N 89°31′56″ E along the north line and the easterly prolongation thereof of Lot 28 of said Block 1 a distance of 889.00 feet to an intersection with the east line of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 21; thence S 0°29′41″ E along the east line of said northeast one-quarter of Section 21 a distance of 668.10 feet to an intersection with the westerly prolongation of the north line of Lots 15 thru 26 inclusive Block 2, of said subdivision of said Section 22; thence N 89°34′52″ E along the prolongation of, and the north lines thereof of said Lots 15 thru 26 inclusive to the east line of the northwest one-quarter of said Section 22 a distance of 2677.61 feet; thence S 0°26′40″ E along the east line of said northwest one-quarter of Section 22, a distance of 1002.48 feet to the northwest corner of the southeast one-quarter of said Section 22; thence N 89°35′18″ E along the north line of said southeast one-quarter a distance of 2671.84 feet to the northwest corner of the southwest one-quarter of said Section 23; thence N 89°31′05″ E along the north line of said southwest one-quarter a distance of 2680.99 feet to the northeast corner thereof; thence S 0°19′00″ E along the east line of said southwest one-quarter a distance of 2707.95 feet to the northeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of said Section 26; thence S 0°02′02″ W along the east line of said northwest one-quarter a distance of 2668.83 feet to the southeast corner thereof; thence S 89°23′22″ W along the south line of said northwest one-quarter a distance of 2678.31 feet to the southeast corner of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 27; thence S 89°39′39″ W along the south line of said northwest one-quarter a distance of 2657.91 feet to the southeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of said Section 27; thence S 89°39′39″ W along the south line of said northwest one-quarter a distance of 2657.90 feet to the southeast corner of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 28; thence S 89°34′48″ W along the south line of said northeast one-quarter a distance of 2668.60 feet to the southeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of said Section 28; thence S 89°34′47″ W along the south line of said northwest one-quarter a distance of 2668.47 feet to the southeast corner of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 29; thence S 89°26′49″ W along the south line of said northeast one-quarter a distance of 2709.41 feet to the southeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of said Section 29; thence S 89°26′50″ W along the south line of said northwest one-quarter a distance of 2712.36 feet to the southwest corner thereof; thence N 0°29′00″ W along the west line of said northwest one-quarter a distance of 2672.79 feet to the southeast corner of the southeast one-quarter of said Section 19; thence S 89°30′38″ W along the south line of said southeast one-quarter a distance of 2041.95 feet to the southwest corner of the east one-half of the west one-half of the southeast one-quarter of said Section 19; thence N 0°31′33″ W along the west line of the east one-half of the west one-half of said southeast one-quarter of said Section 19 a distance of 2684.41 feet to the north line of said southeast one-quarter of said Section 19; thence S 89°12′03″ W along the south line of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 19 a distance of 679.17 feet to the southwest corner thereof; thence N 0°36′48″ W along the west line of said northeast quarter a distance of 2617.55 feet to the point of beginning, as set forth in Resolution No. 74-04-25, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 74-77. HOMESTEAD (Adopted September 16, 1974) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: Lots 7 through 12 inclusive, Lot 13 less the west 449 feet thereof, Lot 14 less the south 115 feet thereof, all in Block 1, Miami Land and Development Company Subdivision of Section 17, Township 57 South, Range 39 East as recorded in Plat Book 5, at page 10 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, and the unnumbered tract in the amended plat of Cocoapalm Village as recorded in Plat Book 35, at page 4 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, less the area lying to the southeast of the SE line of the right-of-way of the Homestead Extension of Florida's Turnpike as recorded in Plat Book 88 at page 13 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: Begin at the northeast corner of the northeast one-quarter of Section 17, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, thence S 2°24′21″ E a distance of 1664.32 feet along the east line of said northeast one-quarter to the southeast corner of said amended plat of Cocoapalm Village; thence S 89°27′31″ W a distance of 1349.27 feet along the south line of said plat to the southwest corner thereof; thence N 2°05′31″ W a distance of 115.04 feet along the west line of said plat to a point on a line 115 feet north of and parallel to the south line of Lot 14, Block 1 of said plat of Miami Land and Development Company Subdivision of said Section 17, thence S 89°27′31″ W a distance of 1348.64 feet along said parallel line to a point of intersection with the west line of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 17; thence N 1°46′32″ W along said west line a distance of 215.38 feet to an intersection with an extension of the north line of said Lot 14; thence N 89°24′31″ E along the north line of said Lot 14 a distance of 449.10 feet to an intersection with a line that is 449 feet east of and parallel to the west line of said Lot 14; thence N 1°46′32″ W along said parallel line a distance of 330.80 feet to the north line of Lot 13 of said Miami Land and Development Company Subdivision of said Section 17; thence S 89°21′30″ W a distance of 449.09 feet along the north line and a prolongation of said north line of said Lot 13 to an intersection with the west line of the northeast one-quarter of said Section 17; thence N 01°46′32″ W along the west line of said northeast one-quarter a distance of 991.23 feet to the northwest corner of said northeast one-quarter; thence N 89°12′25″ E along the north line of said northeast one-quarter a distance of 2680.00 feet to the point of beginning, less the area lying to the southeast of the SE line of the right-of-way of the Homestead Extension of Florida's Turnpike as recorded in Plat Book 88 at page 13 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 74-78. HOMESTEAD (Adopted September 16, 1974) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The southeast one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the northeast one-quarter of the northeast one-quarter of Section 12, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 74-04-25, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 74-79. HOMESTEAD (Adopted September 16, 1974) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The northwest one-quarter of the northeast one-quarter of Section 23, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 74-04-25, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 74-80. HOMESTEAD (Adopted September 16, 1974) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The northeast one-quarter of Section 11, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, less the north 329 feet of the west 265 feet and less the north 430.5 feet of the east 1,037.5 feet, Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 74-04-25, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 75-93. HOMESTEAD (Adopted November 4, 1975) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: All of Block 4, Oleander Park, Plat Book 21, page 74, Public Records of Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 73-12-55, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 80-131. HOMESTEAD (Adopted November 18, 1980) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The east 220 feet of the north one-half of the northwest one-fourth of the northeast one-fourth of the northeast one-fourth, Section 12, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, lying and being in Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 78-09-31, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORD. NO. 80-134. NORTH MIAMI (Adopted December 2, 1980) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following described property: Replat of Block 12 and a portion of Block 1, Sans Souci Estates, Plat Book 65-20, part of Lots 2 and 3, Block 12-A, Beg. 24.65 feet northwest of southeast corner, Lot 2 north 66.92 feet, west 50 feet, south 33.95 feet, southeasterly 59.88 feet to POB as set forth in Resolution No. R-79-64, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of North Miami, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 81-28. HOMESTEAD (Adopted March 17, 1981) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following described property: The west 491 feet of the south one-half of the south one-half of the northwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of Section 7, Township 57, Range 39, of Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. 80-12-37, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. (Ord. No. 81-51, § 1, 5-5-81) Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 82-117. MIAMI SPRINGS (Adopted December 21, 1982) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Miami Springs, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Miami Springs of the following described property: A portion of the northeast quarter of Section 29, Township 53 South, Range 41 East, Dade County, Florida, more particularly described as follows: Begin at the northwest corner of the northeast quarter of said Section 29; thence run south 1 degree 43 minutes 05 seconds east along the west line of the northeast quarter of said Section 29 for a distance of 1307.89 feet to a point; thence run north 88 degrees 16 minutes 55 seconds east for a distance of 478.00 feet to a point; thence run north 1 degree 43 minutes 05 seconds west for a distance of 1.37 feet to a point on curve, said point bears south 5 degrees 24 minutes 35 seconds east from the center of said curve; thence run easterly and northerly along said curve having a radius of 670.00 feet through a central [angle] of 46 degrees 48 minutes 30 seconds for an arc distance of 547.36 feet to a point of tangency; thence run tangent to the aforementioned curve north 37 degrees 46 minutes 55 seconds east for a distance of 114.00 feet to a point; thence north 61 degrees 17 minutes 29 seconds west for a distance of 748.37 feet to a point on a circular curve concave to the southeast, said point bears north 50 degrees 30 minutes 43 seconds west from the center of said curve; thence run northerly and easterly along said curve having a radius of 869.93 feet through a central angle of 29 degrees 21 minutes 04 seconds for an arc distance of 445.64 feet to the point of tangency; thence run north 68 degrees 50 minutes 21 seconds east tangent to the aforementioned curve for a distance or 102.07 feet to the point of intersection with the center line of N.W. South River Drive; thence northwesterly along the center line of N.W. South River Drive to a point of intersection with north line of northeast quarter of said Section 29; thence westerly along the north line of the northeast quarter of said Section 29 to the point of beginning as set forth in Resolution No. 82-2667, passed and adopted by the Council of City of Miami Springs, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 84-16. MIAMI SPRINGS (Adopted February 7, 1984) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Miami Springs, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Miami Springs of the following described property: A portion of the northeast quarter of Section 29, Township 53 South, Range 41 East, Dade County, Florida, described as follows: Tract A, commence at the northwest corner of the northeast quarter of Section 29, Township 53 South, Range 41 East, Dade County, Florida; thence run north 87 degrees 59 minutes 26 seconds east along the north line of said Section 29 for a distance of 50 feet to a point; thence run south 1 degree 43 minutes 05 seconds east along a line parallel to and 50 feet east of the west line of the said northeast one-half [quarter] for a distance of 1,307.89 feet to a point; thence run north 88 degrees 16 minutes 55 seconds east for a distance of 69.86 feet to a point being the beginning of a curve concave to the southeast and having a tangent bearing of north 7 degrees 18 minutes 06 seconds east through said point; thence run northeasterly along said curve having a central angle of 2 degrees 19 minutes 15 seconds and a radius of 2,817.93 feet for an arc distance of 114.14 feet to the end of said curve; thence run north 9 degrees 37 minutes 21 seconds east for a distance of 210.35 feet to the beginning of a curve to the right; thence run northeasterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 919.93 feet through a central angle of 29 degrees 16 minutes 22 seconds for an arc distance of 470 feet to a point; thence run south 61 degrees 17 minutes 29 seconds east for a distance of 50.83 feet to a point on a circular curve concave to the southeast and the point of beginning of the parcel of land herein described; thence continue south 61 degrees 17 minutes 29 seconds east for a distance of 748.37 feet to a point; thence run south 37 degrees 46 minutes 55 seconds west for a distance of 114.0 feet to the beginning of a tangential circular curve; thence run in a southwesterly direction along said circular curve having a radius of 670 feet through a central angle of 46 degrees 48 minutes 30 seconds for an arc distance of 547.36 feet to a point, the center of the aforesaid circular curve bears north 5 degrees 24 minutes 35 seconds west from said point; thence run south 1 degree 43 minutes 05 seconds east along a line parallel to and 528 feet east of the west line of the northeast quarter of said Section 29 for a distance of 503.37 feet to a point; thence run south 88 degrees 16 minutes 55 seconds west for a distance of 478.0 feet to a point 50 feet east of the west line of the northeast quarter of the said Section 29; thence run south 1 degree 43 minutes 05 seconds east along a line parallel to and 50 feet east of the west line of the northeast one-half [quarter] of the said Section 29 for a distance of 200 feet to a point of intersection thereof with the northerly right-of-way line of the Seaboard Airline Railroad; thence run north 83 degrees 38 minutes 43 seconds east along the northerly right-of-way line of the Seaboard Airline Railroad for a distance of 1,065.53 feet to the beginning of a tangential circular curve; thence run in a northeasterly direction along the northwesterly right-of-way line of the Seaboard Airline Railroad and along said circular curve having a radius of 855.336 feet through a central angle of 75 degrees 31 minutes 15 seconds for an arc distance of 1,127.41 feet to a point of intersection thereof with the southwesterly right-of-way line of NW South River Drive; thence run north 50 degrees 51 minutes 06 seconds west along the southwesterly right-of-way line of NW South River Drive for a distance of 1,360.11 feet to a point; thence run south 68 degrees 50 minutes 21 seconds west for a distance of 67.07 feet to the beginning of a tangential circular curve; thence continue in a southwesterly direction along said circular curve being concave to the southeast having a radius of 869.93 feet through a central angle of 29 degrees 21 minutes 04 seconds for an arc distance of 445.64 feet to the point of beginning of the parcel of land herein described as set forth in Resolution No. 83-2699, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Miami Springs, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 85-92. NORTH MIAMIBEACH (Adopted October 15, 1985) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami Beach, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami Beach of the property attached hereto as Exhibit A. The City Council of the City of North Miami Beach passed and adopted on June 18, 1985, Resolution No. R85-45, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B. A portion of the southwest quarter of Section 5, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, together with a portion of the southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida, more particularly described as follows: Begin at the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 5, also being the northeast corner of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 6; thence run westerly along the north line of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 6, to the intersection with the southwesterly right-of-way line of Snake Creek Canal (C-9); thence run northwesterly along the southwesterly right-of-way line of Snake Creek Canal (C-9) to its intersection with the southeasterly right-of-way line of State Road 9; thence southwesterly along the southeasterly right-of-way line of State Road 9 to the intersection with the west line of the east half of the southeast quarter of said Section 6; thence run southerly along the west line of the east half of the southeast quarter of said Section 6, to the intersection with the south line of said Section 6; thence easterly along the south line of said Section 6, to the intersection of the base line of Miami Gardens Drive, as recorded in plat book 80 at page 94 of the public records of Dade County, Florida; said point also known as the southwest corner of said Section 5; thence easterly along the south line of said Section 5, to the intersection with the southwesterly right-of-way line of Snake Creek Canal (C-9); thence run northwesterly along the southwesterly right-of-way line of Snake Creek Canal (C-9) to the intersection with said base line of Miami Gardens Drive; thence run northeasterly along said baseline of Miami Gardens Drive to the intersection of the north line of the south half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 5; thence run westerly along the north line of the south half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 5 to the northeast corner of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 5; thence run south 87 degrees 39 minutes 37 seconds west, along the north line of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 5, for 116 feet; thence run south 67 degrees 53 minutes 49 seconds west for 98.98 feet; thence run south 83 degrees 38 minutes 24 seconds west for 120.6 feet; thence run northerly along the west line of the east half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 5, to the intersection with the north line of the southwest quarter of the southwest of the southwest quarter of said Section 5; thence run westerly along the north line of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 5 to the point of beginning. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 86-96MEDLEY(Adopted December 16, 1986) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Medley, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the Town of Medley of the following property: Tract 18A, Sunny Glade Farms, according to the plat thereof, as recorded in Plat Book 8 at Page 73 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, as set forth in Resolution No. C-459, passed and adopted by the Council of the Town of Medley, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85, as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 88-99HOMESTEAD(Adopted October 18, 1988) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the property legally described on the attached Exhibit "A" and Resolution No. R-87-12-48, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended and 70-85, as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that (1) the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County and (2) the Miami-Dade Water and Sewer Authority Department will retain the water and [sewer authority.] Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 90-80MEDLEY(Adopted July 24, 1990) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Medley, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the Town of Medley of the following property: Tract 50; Tract 51 and 52, less the east 35 feet; Tracts 54 through 56 inclusive; Tract 57 less the west 35 feet and less the south 35 feet; Tract 58, less the west 35 feet; Tract 59; Tracts 60, 61, 62 and 63, less the west 35 feet; and Tract 64, less the west 35 feet and less the north 35 feet, of FLORIDA FRUIT LAND COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION, in Section 5, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, according to the plat thereof, as recorded in Plat Book 2 at Page 17 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; Together with existing excavations, permits and bonds; and with all roads and streets within said area extending to the centerline of the right-of-way of all bordering and adjacent roads and streets, as set forth in Resolution No. C-521, passed and adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Medley, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 90-112NORTH MIAMI BEACH(Adopted September 25, 1990) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami Beach, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of North Miami Beach of the following property: A portion of the NW ¼ of the SE ¼ of Section 12, Township 52 South, Range 41 East, Dade County, Florida more particularly described as follows; Commence at the SE Corner of NW ¼ of the SE ¼ of Section 12, Township 52 South, Range 41 East, said point being at the intersection of the centerline of North Miami Avenue and the centerline of NW 171st Street as shown on the Plat of PARKWAY ESTATES as recorded in Plat Book 64 at Page 37 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run S 89°39′42″ W along the centerline of said NW 171st Street a distance of 511.00 feet, more or less, to a point of intersection with the southerly extension of the east line of Lot 12 in Block 2 of said plat of PARKWAY ESTATES said point being the Point of Beginning of the herein described tract of land; thence N 00°23′08″ W along the southerly extension of the east line of said Lot 12 and along the east line of said Lot 12 a distance of 125.00 feet more or less to the NE corner of said Lot 12; thence N 89°39′42″E along the south line of Lot 6 of said Block 2 a distance of 75.00 feet more or less to the SE corner of said Lot 6; thence N 00°23′08″ W along the east line of said Lot 6 and its northerly extension, a distance of 125.00 feet more or less to its intersection with the centerline of NW 171st Terrace, as shown on said plat of PARKWAY ESTATES; thence S 89°39′42″W along the centerline of said NW 171st Terrace a distance of 163.39 feet more or less to a point of curvature of a circular curve to the right, having as its elements a Radius of 50 feet and a central angle of 49°43′40″; thence westerly and northwesterly along the arc of said curve a distance of 43.40 feet to a point of tangency; thence run N 40°35′38″W a distance of 75.00 feet more or less, along the centerline of said NW 171st Terrace and its northwesterly extension, to a point of the easterly right-of-way line of State Road #9 as shown on said plat; thence run S 49°23′22″W along said easterly right-of-way line a distance of 194.77 feet more or less to a point; thence run S 42°47′35″W along said easterly right-of-way line a distance of 271.40 feet to a point of intersection with the centerline of said NW 171st Street; thence run N 89°39′42″ E along the centerline of NW 171st Street a distance of 510.49 feet more or less to the Point of Beginning. Includes Subdivision PB 64-37, Block 2, Lots 1—6 and 12—14 and intervening right-of-way, of NW 171st Street, as set forth in Resolution No. R90-15, passed and adopted by the City Council of the City of North Miami Beach, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 90-148 CITY OF MEDLEY (Adopted December 18, 1990) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Medley, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such munici-pality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the Town of Medley of the following property: Parcel No. 1 Tracts 41 and 42 of Florida Fruit Land Company's Subdivision No. 1, of Section 3, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 2, Page 17, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, Less that portion beginning at the northeast corner of said tract 42; thence westerly along the north line of said tract 42, a distance of 31.11 feet to a point on the southwesterly right-of-way line of Florida East Coast Railroad; thence southeasterly along said Florida East Coast Railroad right-of-way line, a distance of 40.79 feet to a point on the east line of Tract 42; thence northerly along the east line of Tract 42, a distance of 25.60 feet to the Point of Beginning; and with all roads and streets within said area extending to the centerline of the right-of-way of all bordering and adjacent roads and streets; Parcel No. 2 The north 230.80 feet of Section 9 of Florida Fruit Land Company's Subdivision No. 1 of Section 9, Township 53 South, Range 40 East according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 2, at Page 17, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; and with all roads and streets within said area extending to the centerline of the right-of-way of all bordering and adjacent roads and streets; Parcel No. 3 The North 251.46 feet of the West ¾, N.W. ¼ of Section 10, Township 53 South, Range 40 East Dade County, Florida; and with all roads and streets within said area extending to the centerline of the right-of-way of all bordering and adjacent roads and streets; as set forth in Resolution No. C-528, passed and adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Medley, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remain a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 90-149 CITY OF MEDLEY (Adopted December 18, 1990) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Medley, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the Town of Medley of the following property: A tract of land lying in the northeast ¼ of the northeast ¼ of the northeast ¼ of Section 10, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, Dade County, Florida, and being more particularly described as follows: That portion of the northeast ¼ of the northeast ¼ of the northwest ¼ that lies northeasterly of the northeasterly right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railway. as set forth in Resolution No. C-537, passed and adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Medley, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 91-72 CITY OF MIAMI BEACH (Adopted July 9, 1991) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Miami Beach, Florida are hereby changed, contracted and reduced, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the separation from the City of Miami Beach of the following property: A portion of Section 10, Township 54, South Range 42 East, Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: Commence at the north-northwest corner of "Lindisfarne on Fisher Island Section 3" according to the plat thereof as recorded in Plat Book 135, Page 15 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence south 65°13′00″ east along the north line of the aforementioned "Lindisfarne of Fisher Island Section 3″ a distance of 786.41 feet to the point of beginning of the herein described property; thence continue south 65°13′00″ east along said north line a distance of 233.35 feet; thence north 27°39′54″ west a distance of 124.28 feet; thence south 55°23′23″ west a distance of 44.69 feet of the Point of Beginning. Said lands situate, lying and being on Fisher Island, Dade County, Florida and containing 0.231 acres or less. as set forth in Resolution 90-20033, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Miami Beach, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. The County shall collect and reserve all applicable electric franchise revenues, utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the subject area in the same manner as other parts of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 91-135CITIES OF NORTH MIAMIAND NORTH MIAMI BEACH(Adopted November 5, 1991) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of (a) the City of North Miami, Florida, are hereby changed, contracted, and reduced, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the separation from the City of North Miami and (b) the City of North Miami Beach, Florida are hereby changed, expanded and increased, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the addition to the City of North Miami Beach of the following, approximately 1.22 acre property: Lots 2 and 3 of Block 2 of Biscayne Boulevard Subdivision One Sunny Isles according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 40 at Page 4 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida. as set forth in City of North Miami Beach Resolution RS 91-22 and City of North Miami Resolution R-91-22 which resolutions are made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. The municipal boundaries of (a) the City of North Miami Beach, Florida, are hereby changed, contracted and reduced, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the separation from the City of North Miami Beach and (b) the City of North Miami, Florida are hereby changed, expanded and increased, and the Charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the addition to the City of North Miami of the following approximately 6.26 acre property: Begin at the Southeast corner of the Northwest ¼ of said Section 21, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, also known as the center of said Section 21, thence run S 87°, 38′ 52″ W, along the South line of said northwest ¼, 983.86 feet (983.96′ deed) to the point of intersection with the easterly right-of-way line of Biscayne Boulevard (SR5-US1), as shown on right-of-way map recorded in Plat Book 34 at page 50 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, thence run N 15°, 22′ 28″ E, along said easterly right-of-way line, for 300.02 feet (299.37′ deed), to the southwest corner of a tract of land platted as "L G Smith Tract", according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 67 at page 1 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, thence run N 86°, 52′ 53″ E, along the southerly boundary of the last described plat and easterly extension thereof for 891.64 feet to the point of intersection with east line of the northwest ¼, of said Section 21, thence run S 2°, 32′ 03″ E, along said East line of the northwest ¼, for 297.70 feet to the southeast corner of said Northwest ¼, being the point of beginning. Section 3. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami Beach, Florida, are hereby changed, expanded, and increased, and the charter of such municipality hereby amended by the addition to the City of North Miami Beach of the following, approximately .15 acre property: That portion of a 30-foot right-of-way known as EARL LANE as shown on the plat of BISCAYNE BOULEVARD SUBDIVISION ONE SUNNY ISLES according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 40 at Page 4 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, lying south of the westerly prolongation of the South line of Lot 3 in Block 2 and lying north of the westerly prolongation of the south line of Lot 6 in Block 2 and lying easterly of the easterly right-of-way line of Florida East Coast Railway. as set forth in City of North Miami Beach Resolution R 91-21 passed and adopted by the City Council of the City of North Miami Beach, which resolution is made a part hereby by reference. Section 4. The County shall collect and reserve all applicable electric franchise revenues, utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the area described in Section 3 in the same manner as other parts of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 5. The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 6. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 91-136TOWN OF MEDLEY(Adopted November 5, 1991) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Medley, Florida, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the Town of Medley of an approximately 20 acre area described as follows: A tract of land lying in the southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ and the East ¼ of the northwest ¼ of Section 10, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: Commence at the northeast corner of the southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ of said Section 10; thence run south 01°46′17″ east along the east line of the said southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ for a distance of 261.16 feet to a point of intersection with the southwesterly right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railway said point being the Point of Beginning of the tract of land hereinafter described; thence continue south 01°46′17″ east for a distance of 289.01 feet to a point of intersection with a line 550 feet south of and parallel with the north line of the southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ of said Section 10; thence run south 89°39′15″ west along a line parallel with the north line of the southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ of said Section 10 for a distance of 358.96 feet to a point; thence run north 69°14′30″ west for a distance of 232.72 feet to a point; thence run north 01°14′17″ east for a distance of 231.59 feet to a point; thence run north 87°23′26″ west for a distance of 823.88 feet to a point; thence run north 54°42′31″ west for a distance of 229.55 feet to a point; thence run north 01°15′19″ west for a distance of 697.83 feet to a point; thence run north 45°11′14″ west for a distance of 616.34 feet to a point on the west line of the east ¼ of the northwest ¼ of said Section 10; thence run north 01°47′16″ west along the said west line for a distance of 244.44 feet to a point of intersection with the north line of the northwest ¼ of said Section 10; thence run north 89°39′13″ east along the north line of the northwest ¼ of said Section 10 for a distance of 96.43 feet to a point on the southwesterly right-of-way line of Florida East Coast Railway; thence run south 50°58′09″ east along the said southwesterly right-of-way line for a distance of 744.38 feet to a point on the east line of the northwest ¼ said Section 10; thence run south 01°48′11″ east along the said east line for a distance of 848.66 feet to the northwest corner of the southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ of said Section 10; thence run north 89°39′15″ east along the north line of the southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ of said Section 10 for a distance of 1012.12 feet to a point on the southwesterly right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railway; thence run south 50°58′09″ east for a distance of 411.54 feet to the Point of Beginning. AND … That portion of the southwest ¼ of the northeast ¼ of said Section 10 which lies northeasterly of the northeasterly right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railway as set forth in Resolution No. C-554, passed and adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Medley, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void, or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 95-43CITY OF HOMESTEAD(Adopted March 7, 1995) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: Parcel No. 1. The southeast one-quarter of the southeast one-quarter of the northeast one-quarter of Section 14, Township 57 south, Range 38 east, Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: Commence at the northwest corner of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 14; thence N89°21'04"E along the north line of said southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 14, a distance of 1993.62 feet to the point of beginning, said point also being the southwest corner of the southeast one-quarter of the southeast one-quarter of the northeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 14; thence N00°56'16"W a distance of 667.03 feet; thence N89°22'29"E a distance of 664.42 feet to the east line of the aforementioned Section 14; thence S00°56'52"E along said east line, a distance of 666.76 feet to the east one-quarter corner of the aforementioned Section 14; thence N89°21'04"E a distance of 664.54 feet to the point of beginning. Said parcel contains 10.126 acres, more or less. Parcel No. 2. A parcel of land lying in Sections 7 and 8, Township 57 south, Range 39 east, Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: Commence at the northwest corner of the northeast one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 8; thence N00°58'41"W a distance of 663.88 feet to the point of beginning, said point also being the southeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 8; thence S89°14'14"W a distance of 667.99 feet to the southwest corner of the northwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 8; thence S00°54'50"E a distance of 664.05 feet to the southeast corner of the north one-half of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 7; thence S89°10'34"W, along the south line of the north one-half of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 7, a distance of 1692.20 feet, to an intersection with the northwesterly right-of-way line as depicted on the plat of oleander park as recorded in Plat Book 21 at page 74 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence N41°16'56"E, along said right-of-way of Dixie Highway, a distance of 526.38 feet to an intersection with the west line of the northeast one-quarter of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 7; thence N00°55'48"W a distance of 937.31 feet to the northwest corner of the northeast one-quarter of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 7; thence N89°09'55"E a distance of 1338.91 feet to the northeast corner of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 7; thence N89°15'05"E a distance of 667.25 feet to the northeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 8; thence S00°58'41"E a distance of 663.38 feet to the point of beginning. Said parcel contains 52.573 acres, more or less. As set forth with respect to Parcels 1 and 2 in Resolution No. R93-04-23, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. ORDINANCE NO. 96-11CITY OF HOMESTEAD(Adopted January 16, 1996) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: Parcel No. 3 A parcel of land lying in Sections 10, 11, 14, 15, 22 and 23 Township 57 South, Range 39 East, Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: Commence at the northeast corner of the southeast one-quarter of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 9; thence north 89°22′13″ east a distance of 2677.80 feet to the northeast corner of the south one-half of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 10; thence north 89°22′13″ east a distance of 2677.80 feet to the northeast corner of the south one-half of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 10; thence south 01°47′20″ east, along the east line of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 10, a distance of 412.16 feet to an intersection with a line parallel with and 907.66 feet north of the south line of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11, thence north 89°10′26″ east, along said parallel line, a distance of 2361.98 feet; thence south 01°47′20″ east, along a line parallel with the east line of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 10, a distance of 907.66 feet to an intersection with the south line of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11; thence north 89°10′26″ east a distance of 295.57 feet to the northeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 14; thence south 00°51′04″ east a distance of 2784.68 feet to the northeast corner of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 14; thence south 00°33′46″ east a distance of 2658.04 feet to the northeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 23; thence south 00°23′20″ east a distance of 2676.52 feet to the northeast corner of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 23; thence south 89°31′05″ west a distance of 2680.99 feet to the southeast corner of the northeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 22; thence south 89°35′18″ west a distance of 2671.84 feet to the southeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 22; thence north 00°26′40″ west, along the east line of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 22, a distance of 1002.48 feet; thence south 89°34′52″ west, along the south line of Lots 14 and 27, Block 2, according to the "Plat of Lands Belonging to the Miami Land Development Company" as recorded in Plat Book 5, page 10, of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida, a distance of 2677.61 feet to an intersection with the west line of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 22; thence north 00°29′41″ west a distance of 1670.25 feet to the northwest corner of the aforementioned Section 22; thence north 00°19′37″ west a distance of 2663.75 feet to the northwest corner of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 15; thence north 00°16′00″ west a distance of 2735.67 feet to the northwest corner of the aforementioned Section 15; thence north 02°32′30″ west a distance of 1331.37 feet to the point of beginning. Said parcel contains 1,641.358 acres, more or less. as set forth with respect to Parcel 3 in Resolution No. R93-04-23, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 96-27CITY OF CORAL GABLES(Adopted February 16, 1996) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Coral Gables are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Coral Gables of the following property: Annexation of Pine Bay Estates Subdivision Begin at the southeast corner of Section 12, Township 55 South, Range 40 East, Dade County, Florida, (being the intersection of S.W. 120 street and S.W. 57 Avenue); thence northerly along the east line of said Section 12 and along S.W. 57 Avenue to its intersection with the easterly extension of the north line of Block 1 of Pine Bay Estates Section No. 1, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 82 at page 24 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run westerly along said north line of said Block 1 and its easterly and westerly extensions, to its intersection with the centerline of S.W. 60 Avenue; thence southerly along the centerline of said S.W. 60 Street to its intersection with the westerly extension of the south line of Block 4 of said Pine Bay Estates Section No. 1; thence easterly along said extended line and the south line of said Block 4 to the northwest corner of Lot 3, in Block 4 of Pine Bay Estates Section No. 2, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 87 at page 83 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence south along the west line of said Lot 3 to the southwest corner thereof; thence east along the south line of said Lot 3 to the northwest corner of Lot 4 in said Block 4; thence southerly along the west line of said Lot 4 and its southerly extension to its intersection with the south line of aforementioned Section 12, thence easterly along said south line of Section 12 and along S.W. 120 Street to the point of beginning. as set forth in Resolution No. 28845, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Coral Gables, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. The boundaries of the proposed Village of Pinecrest are hereby changed, in accordance with the proposed Village charter, by the annexation of the Pine Bay Estates Subdivision, as described herein, to the City of Coral Gables. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of its enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 96-57CITY OF FLORIDA CITY(Adopted May 7, 1996) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Florida City, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Florida City of the following property: Area A The Northeast ¼ of Section 30, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, and the West ½ of the West ½ of the Southeast ¼ of Section 19, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, Dade County, Florida. Area B The East ½ of Section 23, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Less the Northwest ¼ of the Northeast ¼ of said section, Dade County, Florida. as set forth in Resolution No. 94-48, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Florida City, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Ordinance No. 96-30, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance shall take effect only upon the written approval by property owners of more than fifty percent of the land in each parcel sought to be annexed. ORDINANCE NO. 96-58CITY OF CORAL GABLES(Adopted May 7, 1996) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Coral Gables, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Coral Gables of the following property: SNAPPER CREEK LAKES COMMENCE at the intersection of the North line of Section 6, Township 55 South, Range 41 East, (being the centerline of N. Kendal Drive), with a line 35.00 feet Westerly of and parallel to the centerline of Old Cutler Road (Ingraham Highway), thence meander Southerly to Southwesterly, along the line that is 35.00 feet Westerly of and parallel to the centerline of said Old Cutler Road (being also the city limit line of the City of Coral Gables) to the point of intersection with the South line of the SW ¼ of the NW ¼ of the SE ¼ of said Section 6 and the Point of Beginning of the parcel of land hereinafter described; thence run West, along said South line, to the point of intersection with the East line of Block 6 of SNAPPER CREEK LAKES SUBDIVISION, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 57 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run North, along the East line of said Block 6, to the Northeast corner thereof, thence run West, along the North line of said Block 6, to the Northwest corner thereof; thence run South, along the West line of said Block 6, to the Northeast corner of Block 9 of the aforesaid SNAPPER CREEK LAKES SUBDIVISION; thence run West, along the North line of said Block 9, and its Westerly extension, to the point of intersection with the East right-of-way line of Red Road, being also the West right-of-way line of Snapper Creek Canal (Canal No. C-2); thence run South, along said East right-of-way line of Red Road, to the point of intersection with the South line of the NW ¼ of the SW ¼ of the NW ¼ of Section 7, Township 55 South, Range 41 East; thence run East, along said South line, to the point of intersection with the centerline of said Snapper Creek Canal; thence run Southeasterly, along said centerline, to the point of intersection with a line lying 35.00 feet Westerly of and parallel to the centerline of said Old Cutler Road (Ingraham Highway); thence run Northerly to Northeasterly, along said line, to the POINT OF BEGINNING; all lying and being in Dade County, Florida. as set forth in Resolution No. 28947, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Coral Gables, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area n the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Ordinance No. 96-30, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance shall take effect only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting in an election to be called by this Board. ORDINANCE NO. 96-100CITY OF CORAL GABLES(Adopted June 18, 1996) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Coral Gables are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Coral Gables of the following property: HAMMOCK LAKES BEGIN at the intersection of the North line of Section 6, Township 55 South, Range 41 East, (being the centerline of N. Kendall Drive), with a line 35.00 feet Westerly of and parallel to the centerline of Old Cutler Road (Ingraham Highway); thence meander Southerly to Southwesterly, along the line that is 35.00 feet Westerly of and parallel to the centerline of said Old Cutler Road (being also the city limit line of the City of Coral Gables) to the point of intersection with the South line of the NW ¼ of the SE ¼ of said Section 6; thence run West, along said South line, to the point of intersection with the East line of Block 6 of SNAPPER CREEK LAKES SUBDIVISION, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 57 at Page 86 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run North, along the East line of said Block 6, to the Northeast corner thereof; thence run West, along the North line of said Block 6, to the Northwest corner thereof; thence run South, along the West line of said Block 6, to the Northeast corner of Block 9 of the aforesaid SNAPPER CREEK LAKES SUBDIVISION; thence run West, along the North line of said Block 9, and its Westerly extension, to the point of intersection with the East right-of-way line of Red Road, being also the West right-of-way line of Snapper Creek Canal (Canal No. C-2); thence run North, along said East right-of-way line of Red Road, to the point of intersection with the North line of said Section 6; thence run Easterly, along the North line of said Section 6, to the POINT OF BEGINNING; as set forth in Resolution 28967, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Coral Gables, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 79-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Ordinance No. 96-30, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty-year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty-year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance shall take effect only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting in an election to be called by this Board. ORDINANCE NO. 96-117CITY OF CORAL GABLES(Adopted July 18, 1996) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Coral Gables are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Coral Gables of the following property: DEERING BAY Begin at the Northeast corner of Section 24, Township 55 South, Range 40 East, Dade County, Florida, said point being the intersection of Red Road (SW 57 Avenue) and SW 136 Street (Howard Drive); thence South along the East line of said Section 24 to the Southeast corner of said Section 24; thence West along the South line of said Section 24 to the Southeast corner of the SW ¼ of said Section 24; thence North along the East line of the SW ¼ of said Section 24 to the Southeast corner of the North ½ of the SW ¼ of said Section 24; thence continue North along said East line of the SW ¼ of said Section 24 a distance of 100 feet to its intersection with the boundary line of the Turning Basin as shown on the Plat of KING'S BAY SUBDIVISION as recorded in Plat Book 57, Page 45 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run the next five (5) courses along the boundary line of said Turning Basin, thence Northwesterly a distance of 464 feet, thence Westerly a distance of 294.7 feet; thence Northwesterly a distance of 52.6 feet; thence Northerly a distance of 485.4 feet; thence Easterly along the North boundary of said Turning Basin and its Easterly extension a distance of 665.6 feet to its intersection with aforementioned East line of the SW ¼ of Section 24, this line also being the centerline of SW 62 Avenue; thence North along said East line of the SW ¼ of said Section 24 to the Northeast corner of the SW ¼ of said Section 24, said point being the intersection SW 62 Avenue and Mitchell Drive (SW 144 Street); thence West along the North line of SW ¼ of said Section 24 to its intersection with a point 15 feet South of, the Southwest corner of Tract D-6, as shown on the Plat of DEERING BAY as recorded in Plat Book 139, Page 60 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence North at right angles to the South line of the NW ¼ of said Section 24 a distance of 15 feet to said Southwest corner of Tract D-6; thence Northeasterly, along the westerly boundary of said Tract D-6 and its Northeasterly extension, a distance of 422.4 feet to its intersection with the boundary of Chapman Field Park as described in Deed Book 3221 at Page 377 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence run the following four (4) courses along said boundary of Chapman Field Park; thence Easterly a distance of 1454.7 feet; thence Northeasterly a distance of 1754.2 feet; thence Northwesterly a distance of 553.0 feet; thence North a distance of 576.4 feet to its intersection with the North line of said Section 24; thence East along the North line of said Section 24 a distance of 2336.5 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING. as set forth in Resolution 28871, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Coral Gables, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 79-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Ordinance No. 96-30, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty-year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty-year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. Section 6. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment. ORDINANCE NO. 96-128CITY OF SOUTH MIAMI(Adopted September 10, 1996) Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of South Miami, are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of South Miami of the following property: SECTION D (LESS PROPERTYWEST OF PALMETTO) Begin at the intersection of the North line of Section 35, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, Dade County, Florida, also being the centerline of SW 72 Street (Sunset Drive) with the East line of the West ½ of the NE ¼ of said Section 35; thence South along the East line of the West ½ of the NE ¼ of said Section 35, also being the city limit line of the City of South Miami, to its intersection with the South line of the N ½ of said Section 35; thence West along the South line of the N ½ of said Section 35, being the centerline of S.W. 80 Street (Davis Drive), to its intersection with the East limited access right-of-way line of State Road 826 (Palmetto Expressway), as shown on sheet 5 of 16 of the State of Florida Department of Transportation Right-of-way Map recorded in Road Map Book 73 at page 7 of the Public Records of Dade County, Florida; thence Northerly, Northeasterly, Easterly, Northerly and Northeasterly along said limited access right-of-way line to the end of said limited access right-of-way line at S.W. 72nd Street, thence continue on its Northeasterly extension to its intersection with the aforementioned North line of Section 35, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, thence East along the North line of said Section 35, being he centerline of S.W. 72 Street (Sunset Drive), to the POINT OF BEGINNING. as set forth in Resolution No. 62-95-9610, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of South Miami, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Ordinance No. 96-30, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty-year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance shall take effect only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting in an election to be called by this Board. ORDINANCE NO. 01-124CITY OF HOMESTEAD(Adopted July 24, 2001) Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended, by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: A portion of Sections 3, 9 and 10, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, Miami-Dade County, Florida, being more particularly as follows: Begin at the Northeast corner of said Section 10; thence run S0°58'15"E along the East line of the NE¼ of said Section 10 for 2636.86 feet to the N.E. corner of the S.E.¼ of said Section 10, thence run S01°47'20"E along the East line of the SE¼ of said Section 10 for 1319.79 feet to the Southeast corner of the North½ of the South½ of said Section 10; thence run S89°22'14"W along the South line of the North½ of the South½ of said Section 10 for 5355.59 feet to the Southwest corner of the North½ of the South½ of said Section 10; thence run S88°40'26"W along the South line of the North½ of the SE¼ of said Section 9 for 1442.25 feet to the Southeasterly right-of-way line of the HOMESTEAD EXTENSION OF FLORIDA'S TURNPIKE, Section No. 87005-2303, S.R. No. 821 right-of-way map last revised 7-25-85; thence run N55°35'29"E along the said Southeasterly right-of-way line for 1043.01 feet to a point of curvature; thence continue Northeasterly along the said Southeasterly right of line, being a circular curve to the left, having for its elements a radius of 7789.44 feet and a central angle of 9°03'54" for 1232.40 feet to a point of tangency; thence run N46°31'35"E along the said Southeasterly right-of-way line for 3052.19 feet to a point of curvature; thence run Northeasterly along the said Southeasterly right-of-way line, being the arc of a circular curve to the left, having for its elements a radius of 3424.04, and a central angle of 22°09'18" for 1324.00 feet to a non-tangent point of intersection with the Southwesterly right-of-way line of the South Florida Water Management District Canal C—103N; thence run N33°14'27"E across the said Canal C—103N right-of-way for 130.02 feet to the point of intersection of the Northeasterly right-of-way said Canal C—103N right-of-way with the said Southeasterly right-of-way line of the HOMESTEAD EXTENSION OF FLORIDA'S TURNPIKE; thence run N18°59'20"E along the said Southeasterly right-of-way line of the HOMESTEAD EXTENSION OF FLORIDA'S TURNPIKE for 129.38 feet; thence run N19°10'54"E for 615.00 feet to a point of curvature; thence run Northeasterly along the arc of a circular curve to the right, having for its elements a radius of 1055.92 feet and a central angle of 26°00'00" for 479.16 feet to a point of tangency; thence run N45°10'54"E for 332.00 feet to point of curvature; thence run Northeasterly, Northerly and Northwesterly along the arc of a circular curve to the left, having for its elements a radius of 588.22 feet and a central angle of 46°00'00" for 472.25 feet to a point of tangency; thence run N0°49'06"W for 135.50 feet to a point on the Southerly Limited Access right-of-way line of S.W. 288 Street the last 5 courses being along the said Southeasterly right-of-way line of the HOMESTEAD EXTENSION OF FLORIDA'S TURNPIKE; thence run N85°22'38"E along the said Southerly Limited Access right-of-way line S.W. 288 Street for 303.31 feet to the terminus point of the said Limited Access right-of-way line; thence run N0°49'06"W for 125.00 feet the North line of the SE¼ of said Section 3; thence run N89°10'54"E along the last described line for 612.77 feet to the Northeast corner of the SE¼ of said Section 3; thence run S0°34'05"E along the East line of the SE¼ of said Section 3 for 2654.65 feet to the Point of Beginning. Less the South 218.02 feet of the West 200 feet of the East½ of the NE¼ of the SW¼ of the SE¼ of said Section 3. as set forth in Resolution No. R2000-06-24, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Homestead, which resolution is made attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Section 20-8.4 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or provision of this ordinance is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected by such invalidity. Section 6. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. Section 7. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. ORDINANCE NO. 02-69 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE. BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Coral Gables are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Coral Gables of the following property: City of Coral Gables Proposed Annexation Legal Description The East One Half (E ½) of the Southeast Quarter (SE ¼) of the Southwest Quarter (SW ¼) of Section 30, Township 54 South, Range 41 East, LESS the South 250.00 feet thereof, in Miami-Dade County, Florida. encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 28843, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Coral Gables, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance shall take effect only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting in an election to be called by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: May 7, 2002 ORDINANCE NO. 02-79 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF MEDLEY, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE. WHEREAS, the Town of Medley requested annexation of an area pursuant to Resolution No. C-750 which resolution is attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference (Attachment I); and WHEREAS, the Town of Medley, at this time, requests annexation of only a portion of its original proposal as generally depicted on the attached map (Attachment II), NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Medley are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the Town of Medley of the following property: Annexation by the Town of Medley Legal Description All that portion of Section 25, Township 52 South, Range 39 East, lying Easterly of the Homestead Extension of the Florida Turnpike (State Road 821) and excluding therefrom the right-of-way for said Homestead Extension of the Florida Turnpike AND All that portion of Section 19, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, lying and being Southwesterly of the centerline of the Miami Canal (Canal C-6) and lying Southeasterly of said Homestead Extension of the Florida Turnpike (State Road 821) and excluding therefrom the right-of-way for said Homestead Extension of the Florida Turnpike AND All of that portion of Section 30, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, lying and being Southwesterly of said centerline of the Miami Canal (Canal C-6) and lying Southeasterly of said Homestead Extension of the Florida Turnpike (State Road 821) and excluding therefrom the right-of-way for said Homestead Extension of the Florida Turnpike, All lying and being in Miami-Dade County, Florida. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. Section 6. This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. PASSED AND ADOPTED: May 21, 2002 ORDINANCE NO. 02-146 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF FLORIDA CITY, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, the City of Florida City has requested annexation of an area pursuant to Resolution No. 01-06 which resolution is attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference (Attachment I), NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Florida City are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Florida City of the following property: Florida City Annexation Area "E" Legal Description A portion of the West half (W ½) of the Southwest quarter (SW ¼) of Section 30, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, in Miami-Dade County, Florida, more particularly described as follows: Commence at the Northwest corner of the Southwest quarter (SW ¼) of said Section 30; thence East along the North line of said Southwest quarter (SW ¼) for 26.14 feet to the centerline of Krome Avenue (State Road 997) and the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence Southerly and Southeasterly, along said centerline of Krome Avenue as it is described in that certain deed between Dade County and the State of Florida recorded in Deed Book 1483 at Page 403, of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida, to the intersection of said centerline of Krome Avenue with the centerline of U.S. Highway No. 1 (State Road 5) as shown on Florida State Road Department Right-of-way Map, Section No. 8702-109, recorded in Plat Book 60 at Page 65 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence Northerly along said centerline of U.S. Highway No. 1 to the Northeast corner of the Northwest quarter (NW ¼) of the Northwest quarter (NW ¼) of the Southwest quarter (SW ¼) of said Section 30; thence Westerly, along the North line of the Southwest ¼ of said Section 30 (centerline of SW 352nd Street), to the POINT OF BEGINNING. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. Section 6.This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision. PASSED AND ADOPTED: September 12, 2002 ORDINANCE NO. 03-156 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF MEDLEY, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, the Town of Medley requested annexation of an area pursuant to Resolution No. C-750 which resolution is attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference (Exhibit I); and WHEREAS, the Town of Medley, at this time, requests annexation of only a portion of its original proposal as generally depicted on the attached map (Attachment II), NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the Town of Medley are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the Town of Medley of the following property: Annexation by the Town of Medley Legal Description TOWN OF MEDLEY ANNEXATION All of Section 10, Township 53 South, Range 40 East in Miami-Dade County, Florida, lying Southwesterly of the Centerline of the Miami Canal as shown on the Florida State Department of Transportation Right-of-Way Map Section 87090-2518 dated June 26, 1970 and recorded in Road Plat Book 88 at Page 12 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida, LESS all those portions of said Section 10 previously incorporated into the Town of Medley, Florida. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 5.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: July 8, 2003 ORDINANCE NO. 03-157 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF NORTH MIAMI, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; RESTRICTING MODIFICATION OF APPLICABLE LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following property: Annexation by the City of North Miami Legal Description Tract "A" of "OAKLAWN PARK", according to the plat thereof as recorded in Plat Book 159 at Page 27 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 2002-38 of the Mayor and City Council of the City of North Miami which resolution is attached hereto (Attachment I) and made a part hereof by reference. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.This ordinance shall be effective only if the City of North Miami executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement wherein it agrees to (a) make an annual mitigation payment to the County's Municipal Services Trust Fund and (b) pay Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $26 per year for approximately 22 years. Section 5.This ordinance shall be effective only upon the following additional conditions: (a) the annexed area shall be annexed with Miami-Dade County's current BU-2 zoning district boundary regulations remaining in full force and effect; (b) should the City of North Miami adopt new land development regulations that rezone the annexed area, Miami-Dade County's BU-2 zoning district boundary regulations shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect if the City's new zoning restricts Home Depot's rights to operate or continue to operate the store on the annexed area; and (c) in the event of a casualty on the annexed area, the City of North Miami agrees that the annexed area may be redeveloped in accordance with plans substantially complying with the site plan used for construction of the store. Section 6.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: July 8, 2003 ORDINANCE NO. 03-158 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF SOUTH MIAMI, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING FOR RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of South Miami are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of South Miami of the following property: Annexation by the City of South Miami-Dade County Attorney's Office Legal Description CITY OF SOUTH MIAMI SNAPPER CREEK ANNEXATION All that part of the Southwest ¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, Miami-Dade County, Florida, lying North of the existing Northerly municipal boundary of the Village of Pinecrest which is the centerline of the Snapper Creek (C-2) Canal according to Miami-Dade County Ordinance 95-207; LESS and excepting that portion thereof previously included within boundaries of the City of South Miami more particularly described as: the North ½ of the Northeast ¼ of the Northwest ¼ of said Southwest ¼ of Section 36, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, also known and described as "Fuchs Park". -AND- A portion of the Southeast ¼ of Section 35, Township 54 South, Range 40 East in Miami-Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: BEGIN at the Northeast corner of said Southeast ¼ of said Section 35; thence run Westerly along the North line of the Southeast ¼ of said Section 35 (centerline of SW 80th Street) to it's point of intersection with the Northerly extension of the West line of Tract "F" of DADELAND NORTH METRORAIL STATION according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 147 at Page 55 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County Florida; thence Southerly along said Northerly extension of said West line of said Tract "F", and along said West line of said Tract "F", and along the Southerly extension of said West line of said Tract "F" to the Southerly limited access right-of-way line of State Road 878 (Snapper Creek Expressway) according to the Right-of-way Map thereof recorded in Plat Book 88 at Page 74 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County; thence Southeasterly, following said Southerly limited access right-of-way line of State Road 878 to it's point of intersection with the Northwesterly right-of-way line of State Road 5 (U.S. Highway No. 1); thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly right-of-way line of State Road 5 to it's intersection with the centerline of the Snapper Creek (C-2) Canal; thence Southeasterly along said centerline of the Snapper Creek Canal and the Northerly municipal boundary of the Village of Pinecrest according to Miami-Dade County Ordinance 95-207, to the East line of said Southeast ¼ of said Section 35; thence Northerly along said East line of said Southeast ¼ of Section 35 (centerline of SW 67th Avenue) to the POINT OF BEGINNING. encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 68-02-11417, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of South Miami, which resolution is made a part hereof by reference. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. It is provided, however, that if the Board of County Commissioners after the effective date of this ordinance, amends or repeals Sections 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County and grants to any municipality having an above average per capita taxable value as compared to all other municipalities within Miami-Dade County, including the Unincorporated Municipal Service Area, the right to be paid electrical franchise revenues, utility tax revenues and cigarette tax revenues accruing within an area that the municipality annexes, this ordinance and any other applicable provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County shall be deemed modified and amended to require that as of the effective date of that amendment or repeal and grant to another municipality, the City of South Miami shall be entitled to be paid the electric franchise revenues, utility tax revenues and cigarette tax revenues which accrue from the area annexed pursuant to this Ordinance. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of South Miami executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement wherein it agrees to (a) make an annual mitigation to the County's Municipal Services Trust Fund (b) pay Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $6,700 per year for approximately 22 years and (c) abide by the Downtown Kendall Urban Center District, pursuant to Sec. 33-284.55, et seq. of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The interlocal agreement shall be approved by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. Section 5.The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 6.This ordinance does not contain a sunset provision.Section 7.The provisions of this ordinance shall take effect only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting in an election to be called by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: July 8, 2003 ORDINANCE NO. 03-216 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF HIALEAH, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Hialeah of the following property: CITY OF HIALEAH ANNEXATIONLEGAL DESCRIPTION All of Section 17 and 20, Township 52 South, Range 40 East in Miami-Dade County, Florida, and those portions of Sections 16 and 21, Township 52 South, Range 40 East, lying Westerly of the City of Miami Lakes, Florida, the West boundary of said City of Miami Lakes being the East Limited Access right-of-way line of State Road No. 93 (I-75) as shown on the Florida State Department of Transportation Right-of-Way Map Section No. 87075-2402 dated December 1, 1978. encompassing an area described by Ordinance No. 02-71 of the Mayor and City Council of the City of Hialeah which resolution is attached hereto (Attachment I) and made a part hereof by reference. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. An existing agreement dated December 4, 1996 entitled "First Amended and Restated Interlocal Agreement between Metropolitan Dade County and Contract Cities for City Use of the County Solid Waste Management System" meets the requirement for a 20 year interlocal agreement for disposal. Section 4.This ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Hialeah: (1) executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement wherein it agrees, among other things, to: (a) pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $786 per year for approximately 22 years or as provided in the interlocal agreement, (b) pay to Miami-Dade County the Fire debt service at the appropriate millage rate (currently .079 mills or approximately $4000 per year) through the year 2022 or as provided in the interlocal agreement and (c) require approval of land uses and land development regulations outside Miami-Dade County's Urban Development Boundary to be consistent with the Miami-Dade County Comprehensive Development Master Plan (Master Plan) and that Miami-Dade County retains jurisdiction regarding applications to amend the Master Plan in that portion of the annexed area lying outside Urban Development Boundary, (2) adopts an ordinance which requires sellers or lessors to disclose in conspicuous type to prospective purchasers or lessees in conjunction of the sale or lease of real property within two miles of the Miami-Dade Lake Belt Area that mining activities involving the use of explosives occur within this area and, (3) adopts by ordinance appropriate building and construction standards for the area affected by blasting. Section 5.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 6.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: Oct. 21, 2003 ORDINANCE NO. 04-76 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF HIALEAH GARDENS, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Hialeah Gardens are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Hialeah Gardens of the following property: CITY OF HIALEAH GARDENS ANNEXATION LEGAL DESCRIPTION See Attachment 1 which is incorporated herein by reference. encompassing an area described by Ordinance No. 2003-41 of the Mayor and City Council of the City of Hialeah Gardens which resolution is attached hereto (Attachment 2) and made a part hereof by reference. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste, if any, within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. An existing agreement dated December 4, 1996 entitled "First Amended and Restated Interlocal Agreement between Metropolitan Dade County and Contract Cities for City Use of the County Solid Waste Management System" meets the requirement for a 20 year interlocal agreement for disposal. Section 4.This ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Hialeah Gardens executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement wherein it agrees, among other things, to: (a) make an annual mitigation payment to the County's Municipal Services Trust Fund in an amount equivalent to .506 mills of the assessed value of the portion of the Northwest Commercial Business Industrial Area contained within the annexed area (b) pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $15.00 per year for approximately 20 years or as provided in the interlocal agreement and (c) require approval of land uses and land development regulations outside Miami-Dade County's Urban Development Boundary to be consistent with the Miami-Dade County Comprehensive Development Master Plan (Master Plan) and that Miami-Dade County retains jurisdiction regarding applications to amend the Master Plan or Developments of Regional Impact in connection with Master Plan Amendments in that portion of the annexed area lying outside the Urban Development Boundary. Section 5.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 6.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: APR 13, 2004 ORDINANCE NO. 05-111 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF FLORIDA CITY, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING FOR PAYMENT OF DEBT SERVICE ON CERTAIN COUNTY BONDS; PROVIDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; SUPERSEDING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEREAS, the City of Florida City originally applied to annex certain lands in unincorporated Miami-Dade County, as more specifically described in Resolution No. 03-29 of the Mayor and City Council of the City of Florida City, which resolution is attached hereto as Attachment 1; and WHEREAS, the Mayor and the City Council of the City of Florida City agree to a reduction of the area sought to be annexed by Florida City, pursuant to Resolution No. 05-21 of the Mayor and City Council of the City of Florida City adopted on May 10, 2005, which is attached hereto as Attachment 2, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The foregoing recitations are hereby incorporated herein as a portion of this ordinance.Section 2.The municipal boundaries of the City of Florida City are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Florida City of the following property: CITY OF FLORIDA CITYANNEXATIONLEGAL DESCRIPTION See Attachment 3 which is incorporated herein by reference encompassing an area generally depicted in Attachment 4. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance Nos. 61-8 as amended, 70-84 as amended, and 70-85 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 4.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County (Ordinance No. 96-30 as amended), this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste, if any, within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 5.This ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Florida City executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement wherein it agrees, among other things, to: (a)pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's (i) prorated share of any County debt outstanding at the time the area is annexed for which revenues from the annexed area have been pledged for repayment of or security for such debt and (ii) its prorated share of any refunding of such debt; this obligation shall include, but not be limited to the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt, and (b)obtain County pre-approval of land uses and land development regulations outside Miami-Dade County's Urban Development Boundary which shall be consistent with the Miami-Dade County Comprehensive Development Master Plan ("CDMP"), and agree that Miami-Dade County retains jurisdiction regarding applications to amend the CDMP or Developments of Regional Impact in connection with CDMP Amendments in that portion of the annexed area lying outside the Urban Development Boundary. Section 6.The provisions of this ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.All special laws applying only to Miami-Dade County, Florida, or to any municipality in Miami-Dade County, or any general law which the Board of County Commissioners is authorized by the Constitution or the Home Rule Charter to supersede, nullify, modify or amend, or any part of any such law, or any prior ordinances or resolutions of Miami-Dade County in conflict with the procedures for the annexation of the annexed land by Florida City, are hereby superseded. Section 8.This ordinance shall be subject to the adoption of an interlocal agreement between Florida City and Miami-Dade County which requires land uses and land development regulations in the annexed area outside Miami-Dade County's Urban Development Boundary to be consistent with the Miami-Dade County Comprehensive Development Master Plan (Master Plan) and which provides further that Miami-Dade County retains jurisdiction regarding applications to amend the Master Plan or Developments of Regional Impact in connection with Master Plan Amendments in that portion of the annexed area lying outside the Urban Development Boundary. Section 9.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: June 21, 2005 ORDINANCE NO. 05-213 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF SWEETWATER, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 5.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THE ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Sweetwater are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Sweetwater of the following property: Annexation by the City of Sweetwater Legal Description All of Section 31, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, and all of Excess Government Lot 6 between Townships 53 and 54 South, Range 40 East, and the North ½ of Section 6 Township 54 South, Range 40 East, in Miami-Dade County, Florida, LESS the West ½ of Tracts 1 through 8 inclusive in Block 24, and LESS the East ½ of Tracts 7 and 8 in Block 25 of SWEETWATER GROVES according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 8 at Page 50 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida, as previously incorporated and approved on March 11, 1986 encompassing an area described by Resolutions No. 3114 and 3120, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Sweetwater, which resolutions are attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Sweetwater executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County wherein it agrees, among other things, to: (a) an annual mitigation payment to the County's Municipal Services Trust Fund based on the future growth of a portion of the annexed area as shown in Attachment B, which is contained within the areas identified by County Commission as Commercial, Business, Industrial (CBI) areas, pursuant to Miami-Dade County Ordinance No. 05-73, and (b) pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $88,800 per year for approximately 25 years until FY 28-29 or as provided in the interlocal agreement. The County Manager shall prepare and present directly to the County Commission an Interlocal Agreement in accordance with this Section within 30 days of the effective date of this Ordinance. Section 5.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6.The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.This ordinance shall become effective: (a) ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board and (b) only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting in an election to be called by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: December 6, 2005 ORDINANCE NO. 08-25 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF FLORIDA CITY, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THE ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Florida City are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Florida City of the following property: Annexation by the City of Florida City Legal Description A portion of Miami-Dade County generally bounded on the North by the centerline of theoretical SW 352 Street, bounded on the East by Krome Avenue (SW 177 Avenue), State Road 5 (US-1) and Card Sound Road, bounded on the South by theoretical SW 360 Street and bounded on the West by the former East right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railroad, said parcel of land being more particularly described as follows; BEGIN at the intersection of the North line of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Miami-Dade County, Florida (centerline of theoretical SW 352nd Street) with the former East right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railroad as shown on the Florida Department of Transportation FEC RAILROAD ACQUISITION MAP recorded in Plat Book 124, Page 77 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence run East along the said North line of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25 and along the North line of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 30, Township 57 South, Range 39 East, Miami-Dade County, Florida (centerline of theoretical SW 352nd Street) to the intersection with the centerline of Krome Avenue (SW 177 Avenue) as shown on the Dade County Public Works Department Right-of-Way Map recorded in Plat Book 112, Page 90 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence run Southerly and Southeasterly along said centerline of Krome Avenue (SW 177 Avenue), the centerline of State Road 5 (US-1) as shown on the Florida Department of Transportation Right-of-Way Map recorded in Plat Book 60, Page 36 of the Public Records of said Miami-Dade County and the centerline of Card Sound Road to the intersection with the South line of the Southwest 1/4 of said Section 30 (theoretical centerline of SW 360 Street); thence Westerly along the South line of the Southwest 1/4 of said Section 30 (theoretical centerline of SW 360 Street) to the intersection with the above mentioned former East right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railroad; thence Northwesterly along said former East right-of-way line of the Florida East Coast Railroad to the POINT OF BEGINNING. encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 04-47, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Florida City, which resolution is attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Florida City executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County wherein it agrees, among other things, to: (a) pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $1,000 per year for approximately 25 years until FY 2028-29 or as provided in the interlocal agreement and (b) the City agrees that the County will retail all zoning and permitting authority over rockmining, lake excavations and related requests within the annexation area in perpetuity. Section 5.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6.The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: March 4, 2008 ORDINANCE NO. 08-54 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF HOMESTEAD, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THE ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: CITY OF HOMESTEADCOMBINED LEGAL DESCRIPTIONANNEXATION AREAS NW-1 & NW-2 A parcel of land lying in Sections 2 and 11, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Miami-Dade County, Florida; being more particularly described as follows: Begin at the southeast corner of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11, also being the intersection of the centerlines of S.W. 304th Street (Kings Highway) and S.W. 192nd Avenue (Tower Road); thence northerly along the east line of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 192nd Avenue (Tower Road), to the intersection with the south line of north 329 feet of the west 265 feet of the northeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11; thence easterly to the intersection with the east line of the west 265 feet of the northeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11; thence northerly along the east line of the west 265 feet of the northeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11 to the intersection with the south line of the Southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 296th Street (Avocado Drive); thence easterly along the south line of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 296th Street (Avocado Drive), to the intersection with the east line of the west one-half of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 189th Avenue; thence northerly along the east line of the west one-half of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 189th Avenue, to the north line of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of the S.W. 288th Street (Biscayne Drive); thence westerly along the north line of the southeast one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 288th Street (Biscayne Drive), and along the north line of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 288th Street (Biscayne Drive), to the west line of the east one-half of the east one-half of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 193rd Avenue; thence southerly along the west line of the east one-half of the east one-half of the southwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 2, also being the centerline of S.W. 193rd Avenue, to the intersection with the north line of the northwest one-quarter of aforementioned Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 296th Street (Avocado Drive); thence westerly along the north line of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 296th Street (Avocado Drive), to the intersection with the west line of the east one-half of the northwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11, thence southerly along the west line of the east one-half of the northwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter and the west line of the northeast one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter to the intersection with the south line of the northeast one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the aforementioned Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 302nd Street; thence easterly along the south line of the northeast one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the aforesaid Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 302nd Street, to the intersection with the west line of the southeast one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the aforesaid Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 194th Avenue; thence southerly along the west line of the southeast one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of the aforesaid Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 194th Avenue, to the intersection with the south line of northwest one-quarter of the aforesaid Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 304th Street (Kings Highway); thence easterly along the south line of the northwest one-quarter of the aforesaid Section 11, also being the centerline of S.W. 304th Street (Kings Highway), to the Point of Beginning, containing 222.29 acres more or less. encompassing an area described by Resolutions No. R2004-04-36 and R2005-09-128, passed and adopted by the City Council of the City of Homestead, which resolutions are attached hereto as Attachment A and Attachment B respectively and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment C and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment C, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Homestead executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County wherein it agrees, among other things, to: pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service as provided in the interlocal agreement. Section 5.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6.The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.This ordinance shall become effective: (a) ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board and (b) only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting in an election to be called by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: May 6, 2008 ORDINANCE NO. 08-69 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF NORTH MIAMI, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE, UTILITY TAX AND CIGARETTE TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THE ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following property: Annexation by the City of North Miami Legal Description That portion of the S ½ of the NW ¼ of the SW ¼ of the SW ¼ of Section 19, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, lying East of the centerline of NE 2nd Ave. (known as NE 2nd Ct.) as shown and delineated upon Deed Book 1952, Page 509, of record, in Miami-Dade County, Public Records, Florida. And That portion of the S ½ of the N ½ of the NW ¼ of the SW ¼ of the SW ¼ Section 19, Township 52 South, Range 42 East, lying East of the centerline of NE 2nd Ave. (known NE as 2nd Ct.) as shown and delineated upon Deed Book 1952, Page 509, of record, in Miami-Dade County, Public Records, Florida. encompassing an area described by Resolutions No. R-2005-21, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of North Miami, which resolution is attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues and all cigarette tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section3. Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of North Miami executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County wherein it agrees that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues. Section 5.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6.The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: June 3, 2008 ORDINANCE NO. 08-118 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF FLORIDA CITY, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE AND UTILITY TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of the City of Florida City are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Florida City of the following property: CITY OF FLORIDA CITY COMBINED LEGAL DESCRIPTION ANNEXATION AREAS G-1, G-2 AND G-3 The East one-half of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 25, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, Miami-Dade County, Florida; being more particularly described as follows: BEGIN at the Northeast corner of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 25, also being the intersection of the centerline of S.W. 356th Street (S.W. 11th Street) and the East line of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 25; thence Southerly along said East line of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 25 to the intersection with the South line of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 360th Street (Lucille Drive); thence Westerly along said South line of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 360th Street (Lucille Drive), to the intersection with the West line of the East one-half of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 25; thence Northerly along said West line of the East one-half of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 25 to the North line of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 356th Street (S.W. 11th Street); thence Easterly along the said North line of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 356th Street (S.W. 11th Street), to the POINT OF BEGINNING. TOGETHER WITH THE FOLLOWING: A portion of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25, Township 57 South, Range 38 East, also being all of Blocks 8 and 9, CITY OF FLORIDA CITY REALTY COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION, according to the Plat thereof, recorded in Plat Book 14, Page 50 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; together with the right-of-way of 24th Street lying between said Blocks 8 and 9, and that portion of the right-of-way of S.W. 180th Avenue (S.W. 5th Avenue) lying adjacent to said Blocks 8 and 9 in Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter said Section 25; being more particularly described as follows: BEGIN at the Southwest corner of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25, also being the intersection of the centerlines of S.W. 360th Street (Lucille Drive) and the Westerly line of the said Southeast one-quarter of Section 25, thence Northerly along said West line of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25 to the intersection with the centerline of S.W. 359th Street (23rd Street); thence Easterly along the centerline of S.W. 359th Street (23rd Street) to the intersection with the East line of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25; thence Southerly along said East line of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25 (S.W. 280th Avenue/S.W. 5 Avenue) to the intersection with the South line of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25; thence Westerly along said South line of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 360th Street (Lucille Drive), to the POINT OF BEGINNING. TOGETHER WITH THE FOLLOWING: The East one-half of the Northwest one-quarter of the Northeast 1/4 of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25, Township 57, Range 38 East, Miami-Dade County, Florida; being more particularly described as follows: BEGIN at the intersection of the Northerly line of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 352nd Street (S.W. 7th Street) and the East line of the Northwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25; thence Southerly along said East line of the Northwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25 to the Southeast corner of the Northwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25; thence Westerly along the South line of the Northwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25 to the Southwest corner of the East one-half of the Northwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25; thence Northerly along the West line of the East one-half of the Northwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25 to the intersection with the North line of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 352nd Street (S.W. 7th Street); thence Easterly along said North line of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 25, also being the centerline of S.W. 352nd Street (S.W. 7th Street), to the POINT OF BEGINNING. encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 05-40, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Florida City, which resolution is attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2.Pursuant to Sections 20-8.1 and 20-8.2 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 5.The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: October 7, 2008 ORDINANCE NO. 08-138 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF MIAMI SHORES VILLAGE, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE AND UTILITY TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THE ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1.The municipal boundaries of Miami Shores Village are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to Miami Shores Village of the following property: MIAMI SHORES VILLAGE LEGAL DESCRIPTION THAT PORTION OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA IN SECTION 36, TOWNSHIP 52 SOUTH, RANGE 41 EAST, BOUNDED ON THE NORTH BY THE CENTERLINE OF N.W. 115TH STREET, BOUNDED ON THE SOUTH BY CENTERLINE OF N.W. 111TH STREET, BOUNDED ON THE WEST BY THE EASTERLY LIMITED ACCESS RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF INTERSTATE 95, BOUNDED ON THE EAST BY THE EXISTING BOUNDARY OF THE VILLAGE OF MIAMI SHORES ALONG THE CENTERLINE OF N.W. 5TH AVENUE encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 1077-04, passed and adopted by the Council of Miami Shores Village, which resolutions are attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2.Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3.Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4.This Ordinance shall be effective only if Miami Shores Village executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County wherein it agrees, among other things, to: pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at approximately $2,537 per year for approximately 25 years until FY 2028-29 or as provided in the interlocal agreement. Section 5.It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6.The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7.This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: December 2, 2008 ORDINANCE NO. 09-32 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF HOMESTEAD, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE AND UTILITY TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING THAT THE ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Homestead are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Homestead of the following property: HOMESTEAD ANNEXATIONLEGAL DESCRIPTION The Southeast 1/4 of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 14, Township 57 South, Range 38 East in Miami-Dade County, Florida; bounded on the South by SW 328th Street (also known as Lucy Street or SW 8th Street); bounded on the West by SW 194th Avenue; bounded on the North by SW 324th Street; bounded on the East by SW 192nd Avenue (also known as Tower Road or Longview Road or SW 18th Avenue); encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 2007-04-46, passed and adopted by the City of Homestead Council, which resolution is attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Homestead executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County. Section 5. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 6. The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 7. This ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: May 5, 2009 ORDINANCE NO. 10-70 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF SWEETWATER, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE AND UTILITY TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; EXEMPTING THE ANNEXATION FROM SECTION 20-28 OF THE CODE OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY REQUIRING MUNICIPALITIES TO MAKE CERTAIN PAYMENTS TO THE COUNTY WHEN ANNEXING COMMERCIAL, BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ("CBI") AREAS; PROVIDING THAT THE ORDINANCE WILL ONLY BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of Sweetwater are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of Sweetwater of the following property: Annexation by the City of Sweetwater Legal Description Portions of Section 31, Township 53 South, Range 40 East, Section 6, Township 54 South, Range 40 East and Government Lot 6, between Townships 53 and 54 South, Range 40 East, lying in Miami-Dade County, Florida, being more particularly described as follows: BEGIN at the intersection of the south line of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 6, Township 54 South, Range 40 East, also being the centerline of West Flagler Street, with the southerly projection of the west line of the East 1/2 of said Lots 7 and 8, Block 25 of SWEETWATER GROVES, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 8, Page 50 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence northerly along said southerly projection and said west line of the East 1/2 of Lots 7 and 8, Block 25 to the Northwest corner of the East 1/2 of said Lot 7, Block 25; thence easterly along the north line of said Lot 7, Block 25 and its easterly projection to the southwest corner of Lot 6, Block 24 of said SWEETWATER GROVES; thence northerly along the west line of said Block 24 and its extension, being 15 feet east of and parallel to both the west line of the Northeast 1/4 of said Section 6 and the centerline of NW 112 Avenue, to the intersection with the north line of said Northeast 1/4 of Section 6; thence easterly along said north line of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 6, also being the centerline of NW 7 Street, to the intersection with the southerly projection of the east line of Tract "A", EURO SUBDIVISION, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 134, Page 43 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence northerly along said southerly projection and the east line of Tract "A" to the northeast corner of said Tract "A" and the southerly limited access right-of-way line of State Road 836 as shown on State of Florida State Road Department Right-of-way Map Section 87200-2521; thence easterly along said southerly limited access right-of-way line to the intersection with the east line of said Government Lot 6; thence northerly along said east line of Government Lot 6 and the east line of said Section 31, also being the centerline of NW 107 Avenue, to the intersection with the north right-of-way line of NW 25 Street; thence westerly along said north right-of-way line of NW 25 Street, also being 60 feet south of and parallel with the north line of said Section 31, to the intersection with the west line of said Section 31; thence southerly along the west line of said Section 31 to the intersection with the north line of said Government Lot 6; thence easterly along said north line of Government Lot 6 to the intersection with the east line of a 130 foot wide canal reservation as shown on State of Florida State Road Department Right-of-way Map Section 87200-2521; thence southerly along said east line of said canal reservation, also being 130 feet east of and parallel to the west line of said Government Lot 6, to the intersection with the north line of said Section 6; thence easterly along the north line of said Section 6 to the southwest corner of Tract "A" of TORREMOLINOS WEST - PHASE ONE, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 126, Page 25 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence continue easterly along the north line of said Section 6, also being the south line of said Tract "A", for 115.00 feet to the intersection with the easterly limited access right-of-way line of State Road 836 as shown on State of Florida State Road Department Right-of-way Map Section 87200-2521; thence southerly along said easterly limited access right-of-way line to the intersection with the north line of Tract "A" of ORSA SUBDIVISION, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 140, Page 61 of the Public Records of Miami-Dade County, Florida; thence westerly along the north line of said Tract "A" to the intersection with the east line of a 40 foot wide canal right-of-way as shown on said plat of ORSA SUBDIVISION; thence southerly along said east line of 40 foot wide canal right-of-way to the intersection with the south line of the NW 1/4 of said Section 6; thence easterly along said south line of the NW 1/4, also being the centerline of West Flagler Street, to the POINT OF BEGINNING; encompassing an area described by Resolution No. 3377, passed and adopted by the Commission of the City of Sweetwater, which resolution is attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. The provisions of Section 20-28 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, requiring an annexing municipality to pay to the County 100% of the net excess of revenues minus expenses attributable to an annexed area designated as a CBI, shall not apply to this annexation. Section 5. This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of Sweetwater executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County wherein it agrees, among other things, to pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $39,200 per year for approximately 19 years until FY 28-29 or as provided in the interlocal agreement. Section 6. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 7. The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 8. This ordinance shall become effective: (a) ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board; and (b) filing with the Clerk of this Board, within 30 days after enactment of this ordinance, of a resolution of the City of Doral consenting to the subject City of Sweetwater annexation; and (c) approval by a majority of the electors in the area to be annexed, voting in an election to be called by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: October 19, 2010 ORDINANCE NO. 13-31 ORDINANCE CHANGING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF NORTH MIAMI, FLORIDA, AND AMENDING THE CHARTER OF SUCH MUNICIPALITY BY PROVIDING FOR THE ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN LANDS, UNDER AND PURSUANT TO PROCEEDINGS PRESCRIBED BY SECTION 6.04(B) OF THE HOME RULE CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR RESERVATION TO THE COUNTY OF ELECTRIC FRANCHISE AND UTILITY TAX REVENUES; PROVIDING RETENTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; PROVIDING INTERDEPENDENCY INCLUSION IN THE CODE, AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE. BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. The municipal boundaries of the City of North Miami are hereby changed, extended and enlarged, and the charter of such municipality is hereby amended by the annexation to the City of North Miami of the following property: Annexation by the City of North Miami Legal Description A portion of Miami-Dade County, Florida, lying South of NE 135 Street, North of NE 131 Street, East of the Biscayne Canal and West of NE 4 Avenue more particularly described as the NW 1/4, of the NW 1/4, of Section 30, Township 52 South, Range 42 East encompassing an area described by Resolution No. R-2011-150, passed and adopted by the Council of the City of North Miami, which resolution is attached hereto as Attachment A and made a part hereof by reference. A map depicting the annexed area is attached hereto as Attachment B and made a part hereof by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description and the map identified as Attachment B, the boundaries of the annexation area as described by the legal description shall prevail. Section 2. Pursuant to Section 20-8.1, 20-8.2 and 20-8.3 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall continue to collect and reserve all electric franchise revenues accruing within the annexed area during the full term of the County franchise, and the County shall forever continue to collect and receive all utility tax revenues accruing within the annexed area in the same manner as though the annexed area remained a part of the unincorporated areas of the County. Section 3. Pursuant to Section 20-8.4, Code of Miami-Dade County, this Ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition and with the reservation that the County shall forever continue to collect and dispose of all residential waste within the annexed area in the same manner as though such annexed areas remained part of the unincorporated areas of the County, unless the authority to collect such waste is delegated by the County to the governing body of the municipality through a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for collection services, and a twenty (20) year interlocal agreement which provides for disposal services in substantially the form approved by Resolution No. R-1198-95. Section 4. Pursuant to Section 20-8.8 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, this ordinance shall be effective only upon the condition that the Board retains jurisdiction over the modification or deletion of declarations of restrictive covenants accepted by either the Board or a Community Zoning Appeals Board in connection with a Comprehensive Development Master Plan application or zoning application, regardless of whether such declaration provides for modification or deletion by a successor governmental body. It is provided, however, that the Board of County Commissioners may not exercise such jurisdiction unless the applicable municipality has first approved the modification or deletion. Section 5. This Ordinance shall be effective only if the City of North Miami executes a duly authorized interlocal agreement acceptable to the County wherein it agrees, among other things, to pay to Miami-Dade County the annexed area's prorated share of the Stormwater Utility Revenue Bonds debt service estimated at $39,200 per year for approximately 19 years until fiscal year 2028-2029 or as provided in the interlocal agreement. Section 6. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance, including any sunset provision, shall become and be made a part of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention, and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section," "article," or other appropriate word. Section 7. The provisions of this Ordinance are interdependent upon one another, and the entire ordinance shall be deemed invalid if any of its provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any of the sections of this ordinance are found or adjudged to be illegal, void or of no effect, the entire ordinance shall be null and void and of no force or effect. Section 8. This ordinance shall become effective: (a) ten (10) days after the date of enactment unless vetoed by the Mayor, and if vetoed, shall become effective only upon an override by this Board. PASSED AND ADOPTED: April 2, 2013

,APPENDIX C FRANCHISES [1]

ORDINANCE NO. 89-81 ORDINANCE GRANTING TO FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY, ITS SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, A NON-EXCLUSIVE ELECTRIC FRANCHISE; IMPOSING PROVISIONS AND CONDITIONS RELATING THERETO; ESTABLISHING A FRANCHISE FEE; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY, INCLUSION IN THE CODE AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: Section 1. There is hereby granted to Florida Power & Light Company (herein called the "Grantee"), its successors and assigns, the non-exclusive right, privilege or franchise to construct, maintain and operate in, under, upon, over and across the present and future streets, alleys, bridges, easements and other public places throughout all of the unincorporated and incorporated areas of Dade County, Florida (herein called the "Grantor") and its successors, in accordance with established practice with respect to electrical construction and maintenance, for the period of thirty (30) years from the effective date hereof, electric light and power facilities (including conduits, poles, wires and transmission lines, and, for its own use, telephone and telegraph lines) for the purpose of supplying electricity to the Grantor, its successors, the inhabitants thereof, and persons and corporations beyond the limits thereof, subject to all franchises in existence on the effective date hereof which have been granted to the Grantee by municipalities within the limits of Dade County, Florida, including any renewals or extensions of such municipal franchises, and subject to any franchises which may be granted to the Grantee by any municipality which was incorporated within Dade County prior to the effective date hereof. Section 2. The facilities of the Grantee shall be so located or relocated and so erected as to interfere as little as possible with traffic over said streets, alleys, bridges and public places, and with reasonable egress from and ingress to abutting property. The location or relocation of all facilities shall be made under the supervision and with the approval of such representatives as the governing body of the Grantor may designate for the purpose, but not so as to unreasonably interfere with the proper operation of the Grantee's facilities and service. When any portion of a street is excavated by the Grantee in the location or relocation of any of its facilities, the portion of the street so excavated shall, within a reasonable time and as early as practicable after such excavation, be replaced by the Grantee at its expense and in condition as good as it was at the time of such excavation. Provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall be construed to make the Grantor liable to the Grantee for any cost or expense in connection with the construction, reconstruction, repair or relocation of the Grantee's conduits, poles, towers and appurtenances thereto in streets, highways, alleys, bridges, and other public places of the Grantor made necessary by widening, grading, paving, or otherwise improving by said Grantor, of any of the present and future streets, avenues, alleys, highways, bridges, easements and other public places used or occupied by the Grantee hereunder, which shall be at the cost of the Grantee, except, however, Grantee shall be entitled to reimbursement of its costs as may be provided by law. Section 3. The Grantor shall in no way be liable or responsible for any accident or damage that may occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by the Grantee of its facilities hereunder, and the acceptance of this ordinance shall be deemed an agreement on the part of the Grantee to indemnify the Grantor and hold it harmless against any and all liability, loss, cost, damage or expense which may accrue to the Grantor by reason of the negligence, default or misconduct of the Grantee in the construction, operation or maintenance of its facilities hereunder. Section 4. All rates and rules and regulations established by the Grantee from time to time shall at all times be reasonable and the Grantee's rates for electricity shall at all times be subject to such regulation as may be provided by law. Section 5. On July 1, 1990 and on each July 1 thereafter during the term of this franchise, the Grantee, its successors and assigns, shall pay to the Grantor and its successors an amount which added to all taxes, special assessments, licenses, excises, fees, charges and other impositions of any kind whatsoever (except the taxes for County school districts levied under Article XII of the Constitution of the State of Florida as constituted on the date of this grant, and the County school tax, and except amounts for assessments for special benefits, such as sidewalks, street paving and similar improvements) levied or imposed upon the Grantee's electric property, business or operations, and those of the Grantee's electric subsidiaries within Dade County, Florida, by the Grantor for itself, or for the benefit of any other general or special public or other governmental body located in whole or in part within the limits of Dade County, Florida, or so levied or imposed and collected by or under any authority whatsoever (other than municipalities with whom the Grantee has an electric franchise) for the benefit of any general or public or other governmental body, located in whole or in part within the limits of Dade County, Florida, including the Grantor and any taxing districts created by the Grantor, during the preceding calendar year will equal the sum of: (a)Six percent (6%) of Grantee's revenues from the sale of electrical energy to residential, commercial and industrial customers for the preceding calendar year (1) within the unincorporated areas of Dade County, (2) within the limits of any municipality in Dade County with whom the Grantee has no electric franchise, and (3) within any of the present unincorporated areas of Dade County, Florida, which may in the future be annexed by or incorporated into a municipality pursuant to the provisions of Sections 5.04 or 5.05 of the Dade County Home Rule Charter, and which annexation or incorporation is effected pursuant to Section 20-8.1 of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County and other County and municipal ordinances which reserve the right of Dade County to retain franchise fees or revenues accruing within such annexed or incorporated areas, and (b)Six percent (6%) of Grantee's revenues from the sale of electrical energy to industrial customers for the preceding calendar year within the limits of any municipality in Dade County whose franchise with the Grantee does not provide for the inclusion of industrial revenues in the calculation of municipal franchise fees, and (c)Six percent (6%) of the Grantee's receipts from pole attachment agreements with third parties other than those with whom the Grantee has entered such agreements prior to the effective date hereof, but which may be entered into with additional third parties after the effective date hereof and with whom the Grantor is unauthorized by law to enter into a separate franchise or license agreement or against whom Grantor may not otherwise legally impose fees for the use of Grantor's property. Nothing herein shall be construed to be a limitation on the assessment and collection of valid taxes, special assessments, licenses, fees, charges and other impositions by the Grantor or other public or governmental body on and from the Grantee in excess of such six percent (6%) amount. Section 6. As further consideration of this franchise the Grantor agrees not to engage in the business of distributing and selling electricity in the incorporated or unincorporated areas of Dade County during the term of this franchise or any extension thereof in competition with the Grantee, its successors or assigns; provided, however, nothing in this Section 6 shall limit the rights of the Grantor under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA"), as the same may be amended or as replaced by successor legislation, and federal and State regulations implementing PURPA, to own and/or operate qualifying cogeneration and small power production facilities and to itself distribute the electrical power generated therefrom to other Dade County facilities for its own use. Section 7. Failure on the part of the Grantee to comply in any substantial respect with any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be grounds for forfeiture of this grant, but no such forfeiture shall take effect if the reasonableness or propriety thereof is protested by the Grantee until a court of competent jurisdiction (with right of appeal in either party) shall have found that the Grantee has failed to comply in a substantial respect with any of the provisions of this franchise, and the Grantee shall have six (6) months after the final determination of the question to make good the default before a forfeiture shall result with the right in the Grantor at its discretion to grant such additional time to the Grantee for compliance as necessities in the case require. Provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall not be construed as impairing any alternative right or rights which the Grantor may have with respect to the forfeiture of franchises under the Constitution or the general laws of Florida or the Charter of the Grantor. Section 8. Should any Dade County municipality assert a claim against the Grantee based upon its franchise agreement with the Grantee and seek therein the recovery of moneys paid by the Grantee to the Grantor, the Grantor agrees to indemnify and hold the Grantee harmless for and against any liability, loss, cost, damage and expense resulting from such claim. Any such amount which the Grantor may thereby become obligated to pay to the Grantee under the terms of this franchise shall be deducted from successive payments otherwise payable by the Grantee to the Grantor until fully repaid. Section 9. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or provision of this ordinance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected by such invalidity. Section 10. It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Metropolitan Dade County, Florida. The sections of this ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention and the word "ordinance" may be changed to "section" "article," or other appropriate word. Section 11 The effective date of this ordinance shall be May 25, 1990, provided, however, that as conditions precedent to the taking effect of this grant, Grantee shall have filed its acceptance hereof with the Grantor's clerk within three (3) days after final adoption, and the approval process is completed by May 15, 1990 as a result of (i) a referendum conducted by Dade County pursuant to Section 1.01A(a) of the Charter or (ii) an amendment to Section 1.01A14(a) of the Charter deleting the referendum requirement. PASSED AND ADOPTED: September 5, 1989.

